THE IMMORTAL STORY
In China... in the Portuguese island of Macao... there lived, toward the end of the last century, an immensely rich merchant...
...whose name was Mister Clay.
He had a magnificent house and a splendid equippage.
And he sat in the midst of both, erect, silent...
...and alone.
Amongst the other Europeans he had the name of an iron hard man and a miser.
Clay bankrupted his own partner Louis Ducrot
Clay quarreled, Ducrot tried to start up on his own.
But old Clay wouldn't hear of that.
Oh, no. He brought him to his knees.
- Ruined him, eh?
- Ruined him?
Him and his family were thrown right out onto the street.
It would be a little manner of 300 Guineas.
But Louis Ducrot couldn't pay...
- And that was the end of it.
- It was the end of Louis.
- He committed suicide.
- And his family?
Well, there was a daughter some place but she ran away with a sea captain.
And, of course, old Clay had taken over the house. Poor Louis!
- He'd been proud of that house.
- Proud? The objects of art in it.
He smashed and burned up every one of them before he left.
He said that nothing meant for the embellishment of life would ever consent to live with the new master of that house.
Except the looking glasses... the ones he brought from France.
Those mirrors had reflected only happy and affectionate scenes
It would be his murderer's punishment, he said, to meet, wherever he went, the portrait of a hangman.
Mr. Clay sat down to dine in solitude.
Face to face with his portrait.
He was not aware of any lack of friendliness in his surroundings.
The idea of friendliness had never entered his scheme of life.
It was only natural that things should be as they were because he had willed them to be so... for Mister Clay had come to have faith in his own omnipotence.
When he was seventy, he had fallen ill with the gout.
He couldn't sleep at night. His head clerk would sit up with him and read aloud the bills, estimates and contracts of his business.
This brought back to Mr. Clay, the schemes and triumphs of the past.
But the nights were long.
We have read this one, too, Mr. Clay.
Read twice before.
I have read to you all of the old account books twice over.
Shall I start again?
There are other kinds of books.
- Haven't you heard of them?
- Other kinds of books?
Besides account books there are other things which people sometimes read.
I am accustomed to getting you the things you want, Mr Clay,
If these books exist,
I must look out for them.
The night isn't over.
What's that?
In the party of Jews who took me with them fleeing from Poland there was a very old man.
Before he died, he gave me this.
Here, Mr. Clay, is something that I shall read to you.
"The wilderness and the solitary places shall be glad,
"and the desert shall rejoice and blossom
- "In synch even with joy ..."
- That's not a book.
- "Strengthen ye the weak hand ..."
- That's not a book at all.
It's what you have asked for.
Something beside the account books.
"Strengthen ye their weak hands and confirm their feeble knees"
- Where'd you get it?
- "say to them that are fearful hearted:
"'Behold your God will come with a recompense.'
"Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened
"and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped."
"Then shall the lame man leap as a hart"
"and in the wilderness shall waters break out."
What was all that?
Has it happened?
No.
Is it happening now?
No.
- Who put that thing together?
- The prophet Isaiah.
The prophet!
I don't like prophecies.
People should only record things when they've already happened.
This prophet of yours, when did he live?
Oh, about a thousand years ago,
Mr. Clay.
Say that again, about the lame man.
"Then lame man shall leap as a hart"
"and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped."
Is anybody doing anything to make these things happen?
This is a prophecy, Mr. Clay!
- Where are you going?
- To get the account book, Mr. Clay.
You don't want me to read to you any more from the account books?
People can record things outside of account books, things which have already happened.
Do you know what such a record is called?
- A story.
- Yes, Mr. Clay.
I heard a story once when I first came out here to China.
One of the sailors told the others about a thing which had happened to him.
He told them a story.
A sailor was walking by himself near a harbor when a carriage drove up and a rich old gentleman said to him.
"You are a fine looking sailor.
Would you like to earn 5 Guineas?"
The sailor naturally answered yes and the rich old gentleman drove him to his house and gave him food and wine and said to him:
"I am very rich.
"I'm very old and I don't trust the people
"who will inherit what I've saved up all my life.
"Three years ago I married a young wife.
"But she's been no good to me.
"I've got no child."
With your permission, Mr. Clay,
I also can tell that story.
What's that?
The old gentleman led the sailor to a bedroom which was lighted with candlesticks of pure gold.
Was it not so, Mr. Clay?
In the room there was a bed and in the bed there was a lady.
The old gentleman took from his purse a piece of gold.
A 5 Guinea piece, Mr. Clay, and handed it to the sailor.
- How do you come to know this story?
- I've sailed on many ships, Mr. Clay.
You can't have known the sailor on my ship.
These things happened to him many years ago.
He'd be an old man by now.
Coming here to China, Mr. Clay, you travelled on only one ship.
So you heard the story only once.
- What's that got to do with my story?
- From Gravesend to Lisbon, there was a sailor on that ship who told the story.
On my way to Singapore, I heard another sailor tell that story.
The story they tell never happended and that's why it is told.
It never will happen, Mr. Clay.
I don't like prophecies.
Yes, Mr. Clay.
Goodnight, Mr. Clay.
I don't like pretense.
I don't like prophecies.
I like facts!
If this story has never happened,
I'm going to make it happen now.
You think I can't do what I want to do?
Mr. Clay, I think you can do whatever you want.
I want the story which
I told you to happen.
Yes, Mr. Clay.
I want it to happen in real life to real people.
Yes, Mr. Clay. To real people.
- Where do you want it to happen.
- Here. In my own house.
I want to see it all with my own eyes.
I want to dine with the sailor in my dining room
I want to pick him out myself in the street by the harbor.
- It will involve expenses.
- Yes. It's going to cost us some money.
You remember there's a woman in the story.
The young miss,
I shall not be able to get you.
I'm paying you to do this work for me... and it will be part of your work to find me this woman.
Yes, Mr. Clay.
I shall have to think it over.
But he had already been thinking it over.
This old man, he thought, is going mad.
From this moment, he realized that he was indispensible to his master.
He did not intend to derive any advantage from this, but the idea pleased him.
This clerk might well have been a highly dangerous person except that ambition, desire, in any form had been washed and bleached and burnt out of him.
He had no yearning for love in him.
No fear. And no wish to fight.
He was like some kind of insect: hard to crush, even to the heel of a boot.
And yet, there were things not yet to be recounted which moved like big deep water fish in the depths of his dark mind.
He had only one passion: a craving to be left alone.
His soul was concentrated on this one request, that he might he might enter his little room and shut his door with the security that, here, no one in the world could possibly follow him.
By the next day, he had decided on the heroine for the story.
In the town, she was called Virginie.
She was the mistress of another clerk in Mr. Clay's establishment,
- A young man named Simpson.
- Charlie?
You remember, he asked me to buy you a shawl.
So I brought you some of them so you could choose the one you like.
Yes. Charlie didn't want to be seen in the shops buying such things for a woman.
Word of that might have got back to his family in Europe. So he sent you.
I don't suppose you've got a family in Europe? What's your name?
Levinsky. Elishama Levinsky.
I won't ask you what you want of me.
You can tell me when you feel like it.
If you know Charlie, I suppose you work with him at the office...
- for the old American?
- Yes, Miss Virgine.
How is he? The old man?
I heard he was sick.
He's no well, Miss Virginie.
He does not leave his house.
Good. Is he going to die?
Oh, no.
At least he is strong enough to make up new schemes.
With your permission,
I'll tell you one of them.
He dislikes pretense.
He dislikes prophecies.
He likes facts.
-  Facts?
- Yes.
But 50 years ago, on a ship, he heard a story told.
A sailor was walking by himself near the harbor when a rich old gentleman drove up in a carriage and said to him:
"You are a fine looking sailor.
Do you want earn 5 Guineas tonight?"
- That was in Benin.
- Yes?
Not here in Macao.
I heard it from a friend of mine, an Englishman, merchant captain.
It happened to a sailor that he knew when he first went to sea.
Miss Virginie, this is a story that lives on ships. All sailors have told it.
It might have been left on sea and never come ashore if it hadn't been for Mr. Clay.
He made up his mind to have it happen in real life to real people in order that one sailor in the world shall be able to tell it, from begining to end, as it actually happened to him.
If he wants to play a comedy, a comedy with the devil, it's a matter between the two of them.
- What's it to me?
- Yes! A comedy. I'd forgotten the word.
There are three people in Mr. Clay's comedy.
The old gentleman, he will play himself and the young sailor... he will himself find by the harbor.
But if an English merchant captain has told you this, Miss Virginie, he will have told you that besides these two there's also a beautiful, young lady.
On Mr. Clay's behalf, I am now looking for this beautiful, young lady.
If she will come into this comedy and finish it for him,
Mr. Clay will pay her 100 Guineas.
Old Clay has got some pretty strange ideas of a comedy.
In a comedy, the actors pretend to kill one another... or to die... or to go to bed with their lovers.
They don't really do any of these things.
You're master's like the Emperor Nero of Rome who had people eaten up by lions.
- Yes?
- Yes. Just to amuse himself.
- But since then it hasn't been done.
- And was the Emperor Nero very rich?
Oh... he owned all the world.
- And were his comedies good?
- He liked them himself, I suppose.
But nowadays, who would he get to play in them?
If he owned all the world, he would get people to play in them.
What does he pay you?
30 pieces of silver?
I am in Mr. Clay's employ. I cannot dare go anywhere but with him.
But you, Miss Virginie, you can go wherever you like.
- Yes. I suppose so.
- Yes. You suppose so.
But you have been able to go wherever you like all your life.
I was so angry with my life today that I was planning to end it.
But now you are angry with me.
Miss Virginie, 
Mr. Clay is prepared to pay 100 Guineas if on the night appointed by him, you will come to his house.
- To his house?
- Yes. To his house.
Do you know what house that is?
It's my father's house.
I played in it when I was a little girl.
That house was the only thing left me from the time when I was rich and pretty and innocent.
The heroine of Mr. Clay's story is rich, pretty, and innocent.
All of these years, whenever I walked past it,
I've dreamt of how
I'd enter it once more.
You are to enter it again, Miss Virginie.
No.
I will not go into this house, Mr. Levinsky.
You've been here before. It's not very much of a place, is it?
No.
I shouldn't think you'd be used to much better.
I live by the harbor near the company quarters.
Mr. Clay's company!
It's true.
- You're an important man
- No! Miss Virginie.
You run the old man's office for him.
You have all of his affairs in your own hands.
You live in a house on the Praia Grande?
- A room.
- A room.
I wonder what it's like.
Did you have a home when you were a child?
- No.
- I thought so.
- You knew him, didn't you?
- No, Miss Virginie.
His name was Ducrot.
He was my father.
It's not the name you use now, Miss Virginie.
Your father died before I came to China.
He killed himself.
That's not my mother.
It's the Empress Eugenia of France.
We used to talk, my father and I, of great, splendid, noble things.
He told me how the Empress wore her white satin shoes one single time only then made a present of them to the common schools for the little girls to wear to their first communion.
I was to have done the same thing.
Papa was so proud of my small feet.
The Empress made a great career for herself.
She said to the Emperor that the way to her bedroom ran through the cathedral of Notre Dame.
And the way to my bedroom?
Lately, it's been through offices and counting houses.
We go where we are told, Miss Virginie.
- What does he really want, the old man?
- To demonstrate his omnipotence, to do the thing which cannot be done.
And yet, you said the Emperor of Rome owned all of the world.
But the people down there, going north, south, east, west,
How many would be going at all if they hadn't been told to go by Mr. Clay and the other rich merchants like him?
Now, Mr. Clay has told you to go to his house and you will have to go.
I suppose that nobody could insult you even if they tried.
Why should I let them?
And if I told you to get out of this house?
When I'd gone. you'd sit here and think of the things for which you sent me away.
Didn't you say you had no family in Europe?
There was a pogrom, Miss Virginie.
They were killed in the pogrom.
- But you escaped and came to China?
- I was in many places first:
Frankfurt, London, Amsterdam, Lisbon...
- Well, you're here now.
- Yes, Miss Virginie.
I see now... who you are.
I thought you were a small rat out of Mr. Clay's storehouse.
Et toi, tu es le juif errant.
I travelled once, myself... for a while.
Que se o marinheiro...
An English captain... the one who told me your story.
He took me to Japan.
On our first night, there was an earthquake.
The earth trembled and shook at the loss of my innocence.
- In the shawls, Miss Virginie...
- In the shawls?
Yes. In the other I once brought here for you to choose from... in each, there is a pattern.
A pattern in all of them.
Only sometimes the line goes the other way from what you expect.
As in a looking glass.
With money to travel with, you can make a career for yourself.
No less than the Empress of France.
Only on this pattern, the road runs around the other way.
And, why not, Miss Virginie?
And you said you didn't know my father?
Or anything about him?
This is the motto on our family's coat of arms:
"Pourquoi pas"
That means, "Why not," Miss Virginie?
Tell Mr. Clay for me that I won't come for the price he's offered me.
My price is 300 Guineas.
That's the pattern.
Or in terms he'll understand, the known debt.
- Is that your last word, Miss Virginie?
- Yes.
- Your very last word?
- Yes.
Here is 300 Guineas.
He was sure to go mad at the end with all his sins.
Rich traders and merchants, they're all mad.
In one way or the other, this thing will be the end of him.
- Yes?
- Yes, Miss Virginie.
But now he may think that the pursuit of a story is even more interesting than the pursuit of money.
Do you want a receipt?
No, Miss Virginie.
Young sailor!
My master here in this carriage wishes to speak to you.
He says, would you like to earn 5 Guineas tonight?
Come!
You're a fine looking sailor.
Would you like to earn
5 Guineas tonight?
You're a fine looking sailor, my young friend.
Would you like to earn
5 Guineas tonight?
Yes, I want to earn 5 Guineas.
I was thinking about it just now... in what way I was to earn 5 Guineas.
Get into my carriage.
I'll tell you more at my house.
No. Your carriage is too fine.
My clothes are too dirty and tarred.
I shall run beside.
And I can go as fast as you can.
He's young, eh Levinsky?
He's full of the juices of life.
He has blood in him.
I suppose he's got tears.
He longs... yearns... for the things which dissolve people...
For friendship and love.
Such things, a man's bones have dissolved.
Once I broke with a partner of mine when I wouldn't allow him to become my friend.
It dissolved my bones.
- Do you think he's ever seen gold?
- He will have heard of it.
Hold out your hand.
That's what you're going to earn tonight.
It's a 5 Guinnea piece.
It's gold.
And gold, my young sailor: it's solid. It's hard.
It's proof against dissolution.
You're a poor sailor and I'm a rich old man.
My name in China is worth more money than you've ever heard of.
In America, when they name me they name a million dollars.
That million dollars, that's me... myself... my days... my years.
My life.
And soon the time will come when one half of me must go and the other half, my million dollars, will live on.
But where?
It occurs to me that it might give me pleasure to leave my possessions to a child.
A child which I myself have caused to exist.
Caused to exist  as
I've begotten my fortune.
The starving coolies in the tea fields, they didn't know they were contributing to the making of it.
For them, it was only the pain in their hands and the poor copper coins of their wages.
In my brain and by my will, many...
...things were brought together to make up one single thing.
A million dollars.
I'm not just now in the habit of talking to rich old people.
To tell you the truth, old master,
I'm not just now in the habit of talking to anyone at all.
A fortnight ago, when the scooner picked me up,
I hadn't spoken a word for a whole year.
My own ship went down in a storm.
And, of all her crew, I alone was cast ashore on an island.
Tonight, it's no more than three weeks since I walked down the beach of my island.
Yes...
All of this must be a change for you.
Yes, this house is very different from my island.
Well, I'll soon get used to talking again. I've talked before.
- I'm not such a fool as I look.
- No, my young friend.
I'm gonna tell you why I fetched you here.
I know.
I know what you're going to tell me old master. I've heard it before: every word.
It's hard on you being so old and dry.
But I shall know well enough what I'm doing.
- He's very young, is he?
- The sailor boy? Oh, yes!
Mr. Clay is highly satisfied with his catch on the behalf of Macao.
Very likely, there's not another fish of just that kind to be caught there.
But if he stays until dawn, he'll see the truth on my face: that it's old!
Mr. Clay and the sailor boy are making ready.
- Old and powdered and ruined...
- They are entertaining one another.
Just as you are now preparing yourself for your own part.
- The heroine's part in Mr. Clay's story.
- Yes?
The story is making headway.
But one way or another, you said, it's going to be the end of him.
No man in the world can take a story which people have invented nd told and make it happen.
Do you think he's going to die tonight? In his malice?
Add up a column of figures.
You start at the lowest figure and move left.
But if a man took it into his head to add up a column the other way, from the left, what would he find?
His total would come out wrong, Miss Virginie. Hmm?
His account books would be worth nothing.
Mr. Clay's total will come out wrong and be worth nothing.
These shells. I picked them up every morning along the shore.
I'm going to take them to Denmark.
They're the only things
I've got to take home with me.
Some are beautiful... perhaps even rare.
Here, poor sailor. It's nothing to you that you're contributing
to the fine bafflement of my relations in America who have been on the lookout all these years for the rich legacy from China.
May they sleep well on that!
Were the nights long on your island?
As long as the days.
The days came, then the nights, then the days...
I had my knife with me.
I cut a mark with it in the bark of a big tree every time I saw a new moon.
There were nine new moons before they rescued me.
What did you think about at night?
Of a boat, mostly.
A good, strong, sea-worthy boat.
She needn't be big.
No more than five per stage.
And when I met you tonight old gentleman and you asked me if I'd earn 5 Guineas,
- that was why I went with you.
- Didn't you think about women?
Yes.
On the ships I've sailed on, the others talked about their girls.
I know. I know very well what you're paying me to do tonight.
I'm as good as any sailor.
You'd have no reason to complain of me.
Your lady waiting here for me. She would have no reason to complain of me.
All the same, I may as well now go back to my ship.
And you, my old gentleman, will take on another sailor for you job.
No. I don't want you to go back to your ship.
You... you've been cast away on a desert island.
You haven't spoken to a human being for a year.
I'd hate to think about that.
I'll take no other sailor for my job.
And your boat?
Thank you, old master, for the food and the wine.
Is there a boat you want to buy?
- Good night, old gentleman.
- How are you going to buy it?
Now you've given back your
5 Guinnea piece and going away.
That boat will never come to be launched.
It will never come to sail.
This was my father's bedroom.
I was allowed to play here on Sunday mornings.
He seems so far away, my father.
He's back with me tonight.
I've entered this old house with his consent.
I was a little girl the last time
I looked in this mirror.
I used to ask it to show me what
I'd be like in years to come.
I think for the first time in his life,
Mr. Clay will be impressed
- by a woman's beauty.
- He mustn't look at me.
- How can he help it?
- I mustn't look at him.
It's the time for acting the story.
He will be coming soon.
No, no. I dare not.
Let me go. Please let me go.
He's paid you, Miss Virginie.
Mr. Levinsky!
My father... on the last day of his life... an hour or so, before he killed himself, he called me to him.
All our misery had risen from the moment he first set eyes on the face of Mr. Clay, so he bound me by a solemn vow, never... in any place or under any circumstance... to look into that face again.
You will not have to look at it.
The downcast eyes of the heroine in the story will bear witness to her modesty.
Who knows?
The prophet Isaiah may now have laid hands on his head and turned Mr. Clay into a child.
Perhaps he's beginning to play with his story.
I may play with it, too.
How do you know I won't set fire to this house in the morning before I leave it again... and burn your master in it?
I know this much:
I've been with him for seven years and now I'll lose my situation.
You're so sure that this comedy of his will be the end of him?
I'm sure of it, too.
He was my father's deadly enemy.
This night will bring about the final judgment.
My humiliation, my disgrace will provide the conclusive evidence against him.
You're the most beautiful girl in the world.
How old are you?
Are you 17?
Yes.
Then you and I are the same age.
You're young. Both of you... young.
You're in fine health.
Your limbs don't ache.
You sleep at night because you move without pain.
You think you move at your own will.
Not so.
You move at my bidding.
You're two young, strong and lusty jumping jacks in this old hand of mine.
I've got something to tell you.
Never...
I've never 'til tonight slept with a girl.
I've thought about it often.
I've meant to do it many times.
But I've never done.
It wasn't all my own fault.
I've been away for a long time.
In a place a long way off, where there weren't any girls.
- What's your name?
- Virginie.
When I was on that island...
...far from here...
I sometimes fancied I had a girl with me who was mine
I brought her birds' eggs and fish and some big sweet fruits that grew there and she was kind to me.
We slept together in a cave that I found.
When the full moon rose, it shone into it.
But I couldn't think of a name for her.
I didn't remember any girl's name.
Virginie...
Virginie...
Virginie.
For god's sake! Get up! We must get up. There's an earthquake.
Don't you feel the earthquake?
No. It's not an earthquake.
Tonight... in that room... in that bed... they, themselves, for that same young, hot blood in them...
It's all nothing but a... story.
My story.
Listen!
The birds are singing.
Yes, they're singing.
On the boats, I sometimes made a song.
What were your songs about?
About the sea and the lives of the sailors.
...and their deaths.
Sing one of them to me.
"As I was keeping the middle watch, and the night was cold,
"three swans flew across the moon, over her round face of gold."
Gold!
A 5 Guinnea piece is like the moon and then not at all like her...
Did you make other songs?
"When the sky's brown and the sea yawns, three thousand fathoms down,
"and the boat runs downward like a whale,
"still Paul Velling will not turn pale."
- Then... your name is Paul?
- Yes, Paul. It's not a bad name.
My father was named Paul and his father, too.
It's the name of good seamen, faithful to their ship.
My father drowned six months before I was born.
He's down there in the sea.
But... you're not going to drown, are you Paul?
Oh, maybe not.
But I've many times wondered what my father thought of when the sea took him, at last, altogether.
Do you like to think of that sort of thing?
Yes.
It's good to think of the storms on the high seas.
It's not bad to think of death.
I have to go back to my ship as soon as it grows light.
Now there's one sailor who can tell his story from beginning to end as it actually happened.
But what about those other sailors?
What ever happened to them?
And why did they tell it?
Maybe it's like that prophecy of yours.
How'd it go?
"In the wilderness shall waters break out and streams in the desert, the parched ground shall become a pool."
He must have lived in a country where it didn't rain very much.
In England, where the ground is nearly always a pool they wouldn't appreciate it.
Tell me the rest.
"Behold your God will come with the recompense,
"and some in sighing shall flee away."
Prophecies! Get up a new financial scheme and you must prove on paper that the shareholders are gonna double their money or triple it.
That never happens but you've got to prove it or people aren't going to invest.
It's like that with the sailors.
They're poor, so they tell about a rich house.
They're lonely, so they tell about a beautiful lady.
That story couldn't happen.
But it's happened to them. 
Say that again.
 About the lame man.
"Then shall the lame man, leap like a hart."
"The eyes of the blind shall be opened."
Prophecies!
You're coming home with me and we'll sleep together every night... like tonight.
You can't do that. He's paid you.
What?
Your man has paid you.
He paid you to go at dawn and you took his money.
- You'll have your boat.
- Yes, I shall have the boat.
Was that what you said?
But you?
What is going to happen to you, my girl?
Old gentleman, will you remember to do something for me?
She's got so many fine things, she would not care to have a lot of shells lying about.
But this one is rare, I think.
Perhaps there's not another one like it in all the world.
It's as smooth and silky as a knee.
And when you hold it to your ear there is a sound in it.
A song.
You'll remember to tell her to hold it to her ear?
Thank you, old gentleman.
And good bye.
- Now you can tell your story.
- What story?
All that's happened to you from yesterday evening till now.
All that I've seen and done?
Why do you call it a story?
You are the one sailor in the world who can tell the story truthfully
 as it happened to you.
To whom would I tell it?
Who in the world would believe me if I told it?
I would not tell it for a hundred times 5 Guineas.
He's dead, Miss Virginie.
He's been waiting at sunrise to drink of the cup of his triumph but the cup has been too strong for him.
It's very hard on people who want things so badly that they can't do without them.
And if they can't get these things, it is hard.
And when they do get them, surely, it is very hard.
I have heard it before...
...long ago.
But where?
English transcript: depositio
I think there must be something wrong with me, Linus.
Christmas is coming, but I'm not happy.
I don't feel the way I'm supposed to feel.
I just don't understand Christmas,
I guess.
I like getting presents and sending Christmas cards...
...and decorating trees and all that, but I'm still not happy.
I always end up feeling depressed.
Charlie Brown, you're the only person I know...
...who can take a wonderful season like Christmas and turn it into a problem.
Maybe Lucy's right.
Of all the Charlie Browns in the world, you're the Charlie Browniest.
Hello in there.
Rats.
Nobody sent me a Christmas card today.
I almost wish there weren't a holiday season.
I know nobody likes me.
Why do we have to have a holiday season to emphasize it?
Thanks for the Christmas card you sent me, Violet.
I didn't send you a Christmas card,
Charlie Brown.
Don't you know sarcasm when you hear it?
Pigpen, you're the only person I know...
...who can raise a cloud of dust in a snowstorm.
Try to catch snowflakes on your tongue.
It's fun.
Mm. Needs sugar.
It's too early.
I never eat December snowflakes.
I always wait until January.
They sure look ripe to me.
You think you're so smart with that blanket.
What are you gonna do with it when you grow up?
Maybe I'll make it into a sport coat.
I think you have a customer.
May I help you?
- I'm in sad shape.
- Wait a minute.
Before you begin,
I must ask that you pay in advance.
Five cents, please.
Boy, what a sound.
How I love to hear that old money plink, that beautiful sound of cold, hard cash.
That beautiful, beautiful sound.
Nickels, nickels, nickels.
That beautiful sound of plinking nickels.
All right, now, what seems to be your trouble?
I feel depressed.
I know I should be happy, but I'm not.
Well, as they say on TV...
...the mere fact that you realize you need help...
...indicates that you are not too far gone.
I think we'd better pinpoint your fears.
If we can find out what you're afraid of, we can label it.
Are you afraid of responsibility?
If you are, then you have hypengyophobia.
- I don't think that's quite it.
- How about cats?
If you're afraid of cats, you have ailurophasia.
Well, sort of, but I'm not sure.
Are you afraid of staircases?
If you are, then you have climacophobia.
Maybe you have thalassophobia.
This is fear of the ocean.
Or gephyrophobia, which is the fear of crossing bridges.
Or maybe you have pantophobia.
Do you think you have pantophobia?
- What's pantophobia?
- The fear of everything.
That's it!
Actually, Lucy, my trouble is Christmas.
I just don't understand it.
Instead of feeling happy,
I feel sort of let down.
You need involvement.
You need to get involved in some real Christmas project.
How would you like to be the director of our Christmas play?
Me? You want me to be the director of the Christmas play?
Sure, Charlie Brown.
We need a director, you need involvement.
We've got a shepherd, musicians, animals, everyone you need.
We've even got a Christmas queen.
I don't know anything about directing a Christmas play.
Don't worry, I'll be there to help you.
I'll meet you at the auditorium.
Incidentally, I know how you feel about all this Christmas business...
...getting depressed and all that.
It happens to me every year.
I never get what I really want.
I always get a lot of stupid toys or a bicycle...
...or clothes or something like that.
- What is it you want?
- Real estate.
What's going on here?
What's this?
"Find the true meaning of Christmas.
Win money, money, money.
Spectacular, super-colossal neighborhood
Christmas-lights-and-display contest. "
Lights-and-display contest? Oh, no.
My own dog gone commercial.
I can't stand it. Oh...
I've been looking for you, big brother.
Will you please write a letter to Santa Claus for me?
Well, I don't have much time.
I'm supposed to get down to the school auditorium and direct a Christmas play.
You write it, and I'll tell you what I want to say.
Okay, shoot.
Dear Santa Claus, how have you been?
Did you have a nice summer?
How is your wife?
I have been extra good this year...
...so I have a long list of presents that I want.
Oh, brother.
Please note the size and color of each item and send as many as possible.
If it seems too complicated, make it easy on yourself:
Just send money.
- How about 10s and 20s?
- Tens and 20s? Oh...
Even my baby sister.
All I want is what I have coming to me.
All I want is my fair share.
All right, quiet, everybody.
Our director will be here any minute and we'll start rehearsal.
- Director? What director?
- Charlie Brown.
- Oh, no, we're doomed.
- This will be the worst Christmas play ever.
Here he comes.
Attention, everyone, here's our director.
Booooooo.
Man's best friend.
Well, it's real good seeing y'all here.
As you know, we are going to put on the Christmas play.
Due to the shortage of time, we'll get right down to work.
One of the first things to insure a good performance...
...is strict attention to the director.
I'll keep my directions simple.
If I point to the right, it means focus attention stage right.
If I make a slashing motion across my throat...
...it means cut the scene short.
If I make a revolving motion with my hand, it means pick up the tempo.
If I spread my hands apart, it means slow down.
It's the spirit of the actors that counts, the interest that they show in their director.
Am I right? I said, am I right?
Stop the music! All right, now.
We're going to do this play and we're going to do it right.
Lucy, get those costumes and scripts and pass them out.
Now, the script girl will be handing out your parts.
You're the innkeeper's wife.
Do innkeepers' wives have naturally curly hair?
Pigpen, you're the innkeeper.
In spite of my outward appearance,
I shall try to run a neat inn.
Shermy, you're a shepherd.
Every Christmas it's the same.
I always end up playing a shepherd.
Snoopy, you'll have to be all the animals in our play.
- Can you be a sheep?
- Baa.
- How about a cow?
- Moo.
How about a penguin?
- Yes, he's even a good penguin.
- Ooow!
No, no, no.
Listen, all of you.
You've got to take direction.
You've got to have discipline.
You've gotta have respect for your director.
I ought to slug you.
Ugh. I've been kissed by a dog.
I have dog germs.
Get hot water, get some disinfectant, get some iodine.
- Waaah.
- Ah.
All right, all right, script girl, continue with the scripts.
Linus, you've got to get rid of that stupid blanket.
And here, memorize these lines.
I can't memorize these lines.
This is ridiculous.
Memorize it and be ready to recite when your cue comes.
I can't memorize something like this so quickly.
Why should I be put through such agony?
Give me one good reason why I should memorize this.
I'll give you five good reasons:
One, two, three, four, five.
Those are good reasons.
Christmas is not only getting too commercial...
...it's getting too dangerous.
And get rid of that stupid blanket.
What's a Christmas shepherd gonna look like...
...holding a stupid blanket like that?
Well, this is one Christmas shepherd...
...who's going to keep his trusty blanket with him.
See? You wouldn't hit an innocent shepherd, would you?
Okay, Mr. Director, the cast is set.
Take over.
All right, let's have it quiet.
Places, everybody.
Schroeder, set the mood for first scene.
Cut, cut. No, no, no.
Look, let's rehearse the scene at the inn.
- Frieda, this is...
- We can't go on. There's too much dust.
It's taking the curl out of my naturally curly hair.
Don't think of it as dust.
Think of it as maybe the soil of some great past civilization.
Maybe the soil of ancient Babylon.
It staggers the imagination.
He may be carrying soil that was trod upon by Solomon.
Or even Nebuchadnezzar.
It sort of makes you wanna treat me with more respect, doesn't it?
You're an absolute mess.
Just look at yourself.
On the contrary,
I didn't think I'd look that good.
Sally, come here.
- What do you want her for?
- She's gonna be your wife.
Good grief.
Isn't he the cutest thing?
He has the nicest sense of humor.
- Lunch break, lunch break.
- Lunch break?
All right, now, there's no time for foolishness.
We've got to get on with our play.
That's right. What about my part?
What about the Christmas queen, hmm?
Are you going to let all this beauty go to waste?
You do think I'm beautiful, don't you,
Charlie Brown?
You didn't answer me right away.
You had to think about it first, didn't you?
If you really had thought I was beautiful, you would've spoken right up.
I know when I've been insulted.
I know when I've been insulted.
Good grief.
All right, let's take it from the top again.
Places. Action.
Charlie Brown, isn't it a great play?
That does it.
Now, look, if we're ever to get this play off the ground...
...we've gotta have some cooperation.
What's the matter, Charlie Brown?
Don't you think it's great?
- It's all wrong.
- Look, Charlie, let's face it.
We all know that Christmas is a big commercial racket.
It's run by a big Eastern syndicate, you know.
Well, this is one play that's not gonna be commercial.
- Look, Charlie Brown, what do you want?
- The proper mood.
- We need a Christmas tree.
- Hey, perhaps a tree.
A great big, shiny, aluminum Christmas tree.
That's it, Charlie Brown. You get the tree.
I'll handle this crowd.
Okay. I'll take Linus with me.
The rest of you practice your lines.
Get the biggest aluminum tree you can find,
Charlie Brown, maybe painted pink.
Yeah, do something right for a change,
Charlie Brown.
I don't know, Linus. I just don't know.
Well, I guess we'd better concentrate on finding a nice Christmas tree.
I suggest we try those searchlights,
Charlie Brown.
This really brings Christmas close to a person.
Fantastic.
Gee, do they still make wooden Christmas trees?
This little green one here seems to need a home.
I don't know, Charlie Brown.
Remember what Lucy said?
This doesn't seem to fit the modern spirit.
I don't care.
We'll decorate it, and it'll be just right for our play.
Besides, I think it needs me.
This is the music I've selected for the Christmas play.
What kind of Christmas music is that?
Beethoven Christmas music.
What has Beethoven got to do with Christmas?
Everyone talks about how great Beethoven was.
Beethoven wasn't so great.
What do you mean,
Beethoven wasn't so great?
He never got his picture on bubble-gum cards, did he?
Have you ever seen his picture on a bubble-gum card?
- Hmm?
- How can you say someone is great...
...who's never had his picture on bubble-gum cards?
Good grief.
Say, by the way, can you play "Jingle Bells"?
No, no. I mean "Jingle Bells. "
You know, deck them halls and all that stuff.
No, no. You don't get it at all.
I mean "Jingle Bells. "
You know, Santa Claus and ho-ho-ho.
And mistletoe and presents to pretty girls.
That's it!
We're back.
Boy, are you stupid, Charlie Brown.
- What kind of a tree is that?
- You were supposed to get a good tree.
Can't you even tell a good tree from a poor tree?
I told you he'd goof it up.
He's not the kind you can depend on to do anything right.
- You're hopeless, Charlie Brown.
- Completely hopeless.
Rats.
You've been dumb before, Charlie Brown, but this time you really did it.
What a tree.
I guess you were right, Linus.
I shouldn't have picked this little tree.
Everything I do turns into a disaster.
I guess I really don't know what Christmas is all about.
Isn't there anyone who knows what Christmas is all about?
Sure, Charlie Brown.
I can tell you what Christmas is all about.
Lights, please.
And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field...
...keeping watch over their flock by night.
And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them...
...and the glory of the Lord shone round about them...
...and they were sore afraid.
And the angel said unto them:
"Fear not, for, behold,
I bring you tidings of great joy...
...which shall be to all people.
For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a savior...
...which is Christ the Lord.
And this shall be a sign unto you.
Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. "
And suddenly, there was with the angel...
...a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying:
"Glory to God in the highest, and on Earth, peace, goodwill toward men. "
That's what Christmas is all about,
Charlie Brown.
For, behold,
I bring you tidings of great joy...
...which shall be to all people.
For unto you is born this day...
...in the city of David, a savior, which is Christ the Lord.
And this shall be a sign unto you.
Linus is right.
I won't let all this commercialism ruin my Christmas.
I'll take this little tree home and decorate it...
...and I'll show them it really will work in our play.
First prize?
Oh, well.
This commercial dog is not going to ruin my Christmas.
I've killed it. Oh...
Everything I touch gets ruined.
I never thought it was such a bad little tree.
It's not bad at all, really.
Maybe it just needs a little love.
Charlie Brown is a blockhead, but he did get a nice tree.
What's going on here?
Merry Christmas, Charlie Brown.
Downloaded subscene.com
I suppose it all started with the snow.
You see, it's a very special kind of snow.
A snow to make the happy happier and the giddy even giddier.
A snow to make a homecoming homier and natural enemies friends, naturally.
For it was the first snow of the season.
And as any child can tell you, there's a certain magic to the very first snow...
...鰖ellikle Noel arifesinde ya瘕yorsa. especially when it falls on the day before Christmas.
For when the first snow is also a Christmas snow, well, something wonderful is bound to happen![Laughing]
[Ruler tapping] Children, back to your seats. The snow can wait.
Now, now. I've hired professor
Hinkle, the magician, to entertain at today's class
Christmas party, so pay attention!
Now, Professor Hinkle was just about the worst magician in the world.
And so, I put the magic eggs in to my hat.
Abracadabra, to coin a phrase... [Laugh]
And voila the eggs have turned in to...
Messy messy messy.
[Children groan]
Where IS that rabbit?
Hocus Pocus! Where are you?
Bah, the only thing this hat's good for is the trash can!
[Children laugh]
[Bell rings][Children cheer]
[Hinkle grumbles]
Hey, look at the snow! It's cold and snowy!
It's the best kind of snow! [etc.]
We're building a snowman, Karen.
You make the head!
The head is the most difficult part, ask anyone!
What will we call him?
Should we call him Harold? Nah.
[Mumbling]? Oh, No.
Oatmeal? Oatmeal?!
How about... Frosty?
Frosty?
Yeah! Frosty it is. Frosty the snowman!
[Cheers]
[Frosty the snowman, what a happy, jolly soul.
With a corn-cob pipe and a button nose, and two eyes made out of coal.]
Frosty the snow -
Come back here, you!
Happy Birthday!
That hat brought Frosty to life.
It must be magic.
Magic? My hat, magic?
Just look.
If that hat is magic, I want it back.
But it's not yours anymore!
You threw it away!
Don't talk back to your elders, you naughty naughty little girl.
And you, stay in there, or there will be no carrots for Christmas.
But you can't take that hat back, it brought Frosty to life
You saw it happen!
I saw nothing of the kind.
I saw nothing of the kind.
[Chattering]
Quiet, I can't lose that hat if it's really got magic now!
It'll make me a billionaire magician!
But we saw Frosty come to life, didn't we? Uh-huh, we sure did.
You silly children believe everything you see.
When you're grown up you'll realize that snowmen can't come to life.
But we -
Silly, silly silly!
Aw, Frosty, we don't care what grown-ups say, we know you DID come to life.
We know, Frosty. We just know.
#Frosty the snowman, was a jolly, happy soul.
With a corn-cob pipe and a button nose, and two eyes made out of coal.
# Frosty the snowman is a fairy-tale they say.
He was made of snow but the children know how he came to life one day.
Now, of course, the hat did belong to
Frosty and the children.
That part must be made very clear.
Therefore, Hocus Pocus was entirely in the right in what he was about to do.
Well, Hocus Pocus raced back to the children just as fast as he could.
[Hocus Pocus whistles]
Look! The hat's back. Let's see if it will make Frosty alive again.
Happy Birthday!
Hey, I said my first words...
But snowmen can't talk.
Alright, come on now, what's the joke.
Could I really be alive?
I mean, I can make words, I can move.
I can juggle, I can sweep, I can count to 10.
Well, I can count to 5. [laughing]
What do you know? I'm even ticklish.
In fact, I'm all living. I am alive!
What a neat thing to happen to a nice guy like me. [Children cheer]
#There must have been some magic in that old silk hat they found.
# For when they placed it on his head he began to dance around.
# Frosty the snowman was alive as he could be and the children say he could laugh and play just the same as you and me.
Uh oh...
What's the matter, Frosty?
Whew, is there a thermometer around here?
Over there on the wall, why?
Oh, I was afraid of that. The thermomter is getting red. I hate red thermometers.
Why, Frosty?
'Cause when the thermometer gets all reddish, the temperature goes up.
And when the temperature goes up,
I start to melt. And when I start to melt...
I get all wishy washy!
Then you've gotta go some place where you'll never melt.
The only place I'd never melt is the north pole.
Then we've got to get you there!
Yeah, we'll take you downtown to the railroad station and put you on a train.
Great, I always wanted to see the town.
Let's make a party out of it!
Let's have a parade!
# Frosty the snowman knew the sun was hot that day, so he said let's run and we'll have some fun now before I melt away.
# Down to the village with a broomstick in his hand, running here and there all around the square, saying catch me if you can.
Come on kids, follow the leader!
# He led them down the streets of town right to the traffic cop, and he only paused a moment when he heard him holler stop.
[Cop blows whistle] Stop. Stop. Stop!
Alright, didn't you see that traffic light?
What's a traffic light?
Up there on the lamp post!
What's a lamp post?
Oh, do you want a ticket, wise guy?
I'd love one, to the north pole, please!
You've got to excuse him, sir.
Alright, didn't you see that traffic light?
You see, he just came to life and he doesn't know much about such things.
Oh, well, okay, if he just came to life.
[Cop blows whistle] Move along!
Them silly snowmen. Once they come to life they don't know nothing.
Come to life?! [Soft whistling]
[Snoring]
[Snoring]
We'd like a ticket to the north pole please.
Hmm... What? Yes.
The north pole? Oh, yes ma'am.
[Bonk, Ping, Tinkle, Scrabble, Doink]
Route you by the way of
Saskatchewan, Hudson Bay,
Nome Alaska, the Klondike, and Aurora Borealis!
Gotta make a change at
Nanuk of the Northville.
That'll be $3,000 and four cents, including tax.
Oh, but we don't have any money...
No money!?
[Bonk, Ping, Tinkle, Scrabble, Doink]
No money, no ticket! [Slam!]
[Sad music plays]
Now I'll never get to the north pole.
Oh, Frosty, you just can't melt!
Oh, Karen, don't you get all slushy too.
What is it, Hocus? Out the window?
A refrigerated boxcar on a train headed north.
You'll be safe there, Frosty! Come on!
It's full of ice cream and frozen Christmas cakes.
What a neat way to travel!
[Whistle blows]
Hurry up, Frosty, the train is pulling out!
Are you coming to the north pole, too?
I'm sure my mother won't mind, as long as I'm home in time for supper.
[Whistle blows]
# Frosty the snowman had to hurry on his way, but he waved goodbye saying don't cry. I'll be back again some day.
I must get that hat back.
Think, nasty, think, nasty, think nasty. [Evil laughter].
# He'll be back again some daaaaaaaaaay.
Now actually, a refrigerated boxcar is a splendid way to travel.
Splendid that is... if one is a snowman or a furry coated rabbit.
But for Karen...
[Sneeze] Are you cold, Karen?
Now that's a silly question.
You wouldn't be sneezing if you weren't cold.
Well... just... just a lit... little.
[Sneeze]
Frosty realized that Karen had to get out of that car as soon as possible.
So when the little freight train stopped to let an express full of happy
Christmas travelers pass,
Frosty took advantage of the opportunity and quickly got them all off.
Oh, you tricked me! No fair!
The only thing professor Hinkle could do was make a jump for it.
[Bonk, Ping, Tinkle, Scrabble, Doink]
[Howling wind]
Frosty wanted to get as far away as he could before Hinkle woke up.
[Hocus' teeth chatter]
[Sneeze]
But the woods through which they traveled were still bitterly cold.
Hocus, I've got to get Karen all warmed up or she's a gonner!
I can't make a fire. Oh boy, that's one thing I really can't do.
I guess we just better keep moving until we find somebody who can.
Then suddenly they came upon a tiny glen which seemed almost magical.
For it was Christmas eve and the woodland animals were all decorating for their big celebration.
They knew Santa was to come that night and they wanted everything to be just right.
Hocus, speak to the animals.
See if they won't all pitch in and build a fire for Karen.
[Squeaky noises]
The animals were delighted to help. so they found a spot away from the glen where the fire wouldn't catch on to the trees.
Soon there was a spark and in almost no time a splendid fire was crackling away.
Frosty was careful to stay far away from the flames.
Hocus, we've got to find someone to help Karen get home before she freezes.
And me to the north pole before I melt, but who?
No, not the Marines.
No, not the president of the United States.
Oh, they were both swell ideas, but we've got to find someone nearby.
Yeah, Santa Claus. That's a great idea.
Why didn't I think of that before?
Hocus, you go back with the animals and when Santa comes, you bring him right here.
Understand?
Hurry now!
So Frosty kept a silent vigil, waiting patiently all through the night until Santa would arrive.
But suddenly...
Oh, a campfire.
Well isn't that all snug and comfy?
[Evil laughter]
[Professor Hinkle blows]
No! Don't!
Now give me that hat or else!
Or else what?
Well don't bother me with details, give me that hat!
Get on my shoulders, Karen!
You see, Frosty, since he was made of snow himself was the fastest belly-whopper in the world.
And old professor Hinkle was soon far outdistanced.
And now it was Frosty's good fortune that right at the bottom of the hill was a tiny greenhouse used to grow precious tropical poinsettias for Christmas.
It's got to be all warm and snug inside for those Christmas flowers to grow so beautiful.
Let's go in.
Oh, but, but you will melt!
Just a little. I'll only stay inside for a minute.
Besides, I've been meaning to take off a little weight anyway.
Whew, stay in here much longer and
I'll really make a splash in the world.
Now I've got you, and the minute you're all melted the hat will be mine! [Evil laughter]
Santa had arrived but was he too late?
Hocus explained the situation to Santa, who (as you know) speaks a fluent rabbit.
And when they didn't find
Frosty and Karen on the hill...
Santa followed Frosty's path in the snow to the greenhouse.
But when they got inside, a terrible sight met their eyes.
[Karen weeping]
[Sad music plays]
# (Very slowly) Frosty the snowman was a happy, jolly soul with a corn-cob pipe and a button nose and two eyes made out of coal.
They were too late.
Too late? Why, nonsense!
Don't cry, Karen.
Frosty's not gone for good.
You see, he was made out of Christmas snow and Christmas snow can never disappear completely.
Oh, it sometimes goes away for almost a year at a time and takes the form of
Spring and Summer rain, but you can bet your boots that when a good jolly
December wind kisses it, it will turn in to Christmas snow all over again!
Yes, but he was my friend.
[Chuckle] Just watch.
Wait a minute!
I want that hat and I want it now!
Don't you dare touch that!
And just what are YOU going to do about it?
If you so much as lay a finger on the brim,
I'll never bring you another
Christmas present as long as you live.
Never?
Never!
No more trick cards or magic balls or...
No more anything.
Oh, that's not fair.
I mean, we evil magicians have to make a living too.
Now you go home and write "I am very sorry for what I did to Frosty" a hundred zillion times.
And then maybe, just maybe, mind you... you'll find something in your stocking tomorrow morning.
A new hat maybe?
Oh, yes sir. Goodbye everyone.
Sorry to lose and run, but I've got to get busy writing.
Busy busy busy!
Come on, Frosty, we're all waiting for you.
Happy Birthday!
#Frosty the snowman is a fairy-tale they say.
He was made of snow but the children know how he came to life one day.
And so Santa took Karen home and made ready to bring Frosty back to the north pole.
Karen hated to say goodbye to Frosty, but as Santa promised, Frosty returned every year with the magical Christmas snow.
And every year there was a great celebration with a great Christmas parade.
#Thumpity thump thump thumpity thump. Look at that Frosty go.
Thumpity thump thump thumpity thump. Over the hills of snow.
#Frosty the snowman, was a jolly, happy soul.
With a corn-cob pipe and a button nose, and two eyes made out of coal.
And with Frosty the snowman,
Christmas was always very merry indeed.
You have a merry Christmas too!
#Frosty the snowman had to hurry on his way, but he waved goodbye saying don't you cry.
I'll be back on Christmas day!
