Downloaded From www.AllSubs.org
To preserve the coherence of the story, a missing sequence was replaced by an extracted sequence of another film of
"Fantômas" series.
This sequence, diverted from the original, is pointed out by: *
Fantômas IV
Fantômas vs Fantômas
From the novel
"The gangster policeman" by
Monsieur Navarre in the role of Fantômas
Part One:
Fantômas and public opinion.
Following the repeated failure of Inspector Juve in dealing with Fantômas, a violent press campaign erupted, which infuriated Jerome
Fandor, reporter for
'The Capital', and friend and collaborator of the policeman.
JUVE IS Fantômas!
If the police haven't managed to arrest the criminal yet, it's only because they are one and the same person.
THE PROOF:
Summoned to the Halls of
Justice, in the office of the civic judge, Juve finds himself under accusations.
The Chief Public
Prosecutor...
- Arrest this man!
- Take down a statement for the papers.
At 'The Capital', Fandor had his own network of informers who were often quicker than official statements and agency dispatches.
Commissioner, I know that someone will come to arrest me like my friend Juve.
Forgive me for giving you the slip.
While Juve is at the Station, it is better that I am free to work on his behalf to see that justice is done as soon as possible.
- Jerome Fandor
- For the commissioner when he comes to arrest me.
Part Two:
The Wall that bleeds.
Owner of several buildings in the residential part of Paris, a usurer, a crooked but careful businessman, father Moche always pays his bills on time.
-I've got another bill to collect at Monsieur
Paulet's, on the floor above.
Monsieur Paulet...
Monsieur, I present to you to the new tenant on the fifth floor of your building on Evangile Street.
This person desires that one room of her apartment be divided in two by a partition.
-Your concierge, Madame
Doullenque.
So, that man upstairs, what are you going to do with him?
- Split the money three ways and I will take care of everything.
The police prove incapable of finding the least trace of the missing bank messenger. Furious, the chief of police summoned his inspectors.
The famous american detective
Tom Bob is in Paris.
A challenger to the french police.
He intends to find out the truth about Fantômas.
Perhaps he will find a lead on the bank messenger who mysteriously disappeared several days ago and is believed to have been murdered.
- For heaven's sake, gentlemen, you are not going to let yourselves be shown up by an american!
At the tenant's home on
Evangile Street, the works were now almost finished.
-I am the new man. The boss sent me to replace you.
-It's blood!
Call the police!
A quarter of an hour later...
-The missing bank messenger!
TOM BOB, American Detective
Hotel Terminus, Paris.
Part Three:
Fantômas vs
Fantômas.
By her new marriage,
Lady Beltham, Fantômas's old mistress, had become the grand duchess Alexandra.
She believed she had finally broken off from the past.
- Fantômas!
- I've only one last service to ask of you... our Highness.
To: The Havas Agency.
Since the police are incapable of delivering Fantômas to us, the grand duchess Alexandra proposes to offer a public reward payable to whoever brings about the arrest of the elusive criminal.
The money will be collected at the home of the grand duchess, who will pay out a sum of 5,000 francs.
In a small and discreet hotel in the suburbs...
To launch the reward, the grand duchess was giving a grand masked-ball, which Fandor, skilled at edging his way into anywhere, had decided to attend.
By thus 'usurping' the legendary costume of
Fantômas, the journalist hoped to provoke a reaction from the criminal, which would lead him to give himself away.
At the Police Department...
...someone had had the same idea.
The Grand Duchess
Alexandra begs you to attend a masked-ball which she is giving in Hotel Parc des
Princes, from 7pm onwards.
The grand duchess's ball is a success.
In the joyful atmosphere of the ball, no-one, except the grand duchess, took the quarrel between the two Fantômases seriously... or nearly no-one.
A cry in the night...
Fandor, who had recognised the Police Inspector, cared very little, given the situation, for coming in contact with the police.
- Madame, a man has just been murdered in your garden.
To her great relief, the grand duchess saw that the dead man was unknown to her.
The investigation began immediately.
The following morning...
If Juve and Fantômas were one and the same, Juve must have the same wound on his own right arm.
At the Police Station...
- It is absolutely impossible that the prisoner could have got out of his cell that night, and then come back to it.
A narcotic!
Juve demands that all the guards be summoned.
Juve recognizes Nibet,
Fantômas's accomplice, who he often saw at mother
Toulouche's, when he was disguised as the idiot
Cranajour.
Part Four:
Settling of Old Scores.
Abandoned quarries, empty houses, Fandor knew practically all the hide-outs of the underworld in the Paris suburbs.
He explored them one by one to find Fantômas's trail.
It was Fantômas's gang. The gangsters were demanding from father Moche an immediate share of the loot from their last few jobs.
My friends, have confidence.
While I am at the Police
Station, put complete trust in my lieutenant, father Moche.
Upon my release, which will not be long, I will distribute the loot.
- Fantômas
The loot...
The construction of a new wing along the Orfevres
Dock had turned the Halls of
Justice upside down - they were overrun by builders.
ABSOLUTELY CONFIDENTIAL
Inspector Juve resumes his duties at the Police
Department.
But, so as not to hinder the research of that inspector, his release must remain a secret.
- Commissioner of Police.
Since Fantômas had promised to share out the loot upon his release from prison, the gangsters had decided to speed things up.
Meanwhile, in the local police station near the abandoned house...
ABSOLUTELY CONFIDENTIAL
Inspector Juve resumes his duties at the Police
Department.
But, so as not to hinder the research of that inspector, his release must remain a secret.
- Commissioner of Police.
- If you want to catch
Fantômas and his gang, follow me.
The news that the sharing out of the loot was going to take place in the empty house spread quickly among the gangsters.
- If you are Fantômas, we want our share immediately.
If you are Juve, so much the worse for you.
-Juve, it's me, Fandor.
- Tell them that you are
Fantômas and to lift the dark-coloured paving stone in front of you.
- I am Fantômas.
- Look out! The cops!
-No they aren't!
They are some friends in disguise for a job I'm planning.
- How did you find us?
But Tom Bob had disappeared.
To Juve, everything was clear. Fantômas, Tom Bob and father Moche were all one and the same.
The criminal had had his accomplices arrested to keep the loot for himself...
...And the reward for his arrest was a very large sum of money.
Once more Fantômas shot off on the path of crime.
Downloaded From www.AllSubs.org
The Mystery
Of The Leaping Fish
Home of the world's greatest scientific detective,
Coke Ennyday.
EATS - DRINKS
DOPE - SLEEP
The police chief often came to Coke Ennyday for help.
Coke Ennyday took no chances on admitting a visitor without consulting his scientific periscope.
Chief I. M. Keene
Short Beach
We are greatly mystified by the presence of a gentleman down here rolling in wealth, without any viable means of support.
Can you help us?
Endorsed find photo.
The gentleman rolling in wealth.
"Press me out a bundle of money."
DISGUISES
At Short Beach, the mysterious gentleman is joined by a female confederate.
The Leaping Fish.
Quietly Coke Ennyday stole out on the rail.
At the bath house where the man of mystery made. his weekly clean up.
"Give me that girl in marriage or I'll spill the beans!"
Inane, the little fish-blower of Short Beach.
Without a moment to lose
Coke Ennyday arrived at the scene of action.
Stuck in the mud.
LIFE SAVER
Exhausted by the mental strain.
"You have saved my life!"
"I am Coke Ennyday, the detective. See!"
"Is this you?"
"Yep, that's me!"
Even the fish worked against him.
"Tell the fish-blower she has got to marry Fishy Joe within the week."
"You must consent to marry
Fishy Joe within the week."
"Have no fear.
Coke Ennyday the scientific detective will protect you."
"Japs on the leaping fish!
Get the cans! At last a clue!"
"Smuggling!
The secret is mine!"
"Where is young chap that was here?"
"Coke Ennyday is on our trail!"
"Beat it to the laundry!
We'll meet you there."
"Opium!"
"Woman, we've got to make a quick get-away! "
Full of hop.
HELP
In Chinatown, the laundry where the gang does its dirty works.
"Girl, you are in my power."
POLICE PATROL
"At last we meet face to face."
"That means fight in my country."
"The best man walks out!"
The duel in the dark.
The police lost their way.
"Nobody home."
But not the end of this story...
"No, Douglas, you had better give up scenario writing and stick to acting."
Part One
THE ORIENT EXPRESS DISASTER
The Man in Black won the first round but Inspector Juve swore he'd win the second.
Juve lists the criminal's crimes:
Robbery of Princess Danidoff, murder of Lord Beltham, attempted execution of the actor Valgrand.
And now, the Chaleck affair...
 Here, Jérôme, read my report.
Report by Inspector Juve to the Chief of National Police.
The female corpse found at Dr Chaleck's could not be positively identified as the victim was totally disfigured but she carried identification in the name of Lady Beltham, accomplice of the murderer Gurn who escaped prison on his execution day.
Is it really Lady Beltham or a ruse for her to be believed dead? An enigma .
Another enigma: How did the body end up at Dr. Chaleck's?
He seems above suspicion because he immediately informed the police upon finding the body in his apartment, after being away for a few days.
Lastly, the coroner could not determine the exact cause of death.
The body appears to have been mangled.
The investigation continues. Juve.
 Calm down, kid.
Old Juve knows what to do.
The next day on rue Frochot, as Dr. Chaleck exits his home...
Tailing the Doc:tor's car,
Juve and Fandor reach Boulevard de la Chapelle.
During the trip, the elegant Dr. Chaleck transformed himself into a shady character.
While Juve followed the ruffian,
Fandor tailed the strumpet.
My beloved Loupart, be at the train station at 3 o'clock with some henchmen.
The old coot I told you about, Mr. Martialle, from Kessler & Barru Wines, will be carrying 150,000 francs.
He's mad about me and believes me lily-white.
That's why he wants me to go on the trip with him.
Your Josephine.
Another ruffian follows Juve...
Fandor, luckier than Juve, hasn't lost the girl.
METRO LINE 2
Dear Juve,
I'm on the right track.
The bird has returned to her nest and I'm on watch.
Fandor.
One hour later, the strumpet, transformed, exits her home.
She goes to the train station to meet Martialle, wine merchant.
As planned, Loupart's accomplices are waiting on the platform.
Good idea to have chosen to last car, dear Joséphine .
Here we'll be ideally alone...
To what fate does this train lead Martialle and Fandor?
In the unhitched car, Fantômas's gang may now operate at leisure.
Fandor, dozing in the next compartment, experiences a similar misadventure.
There was only one track, that of the Orient Express .
And now the incline is causing the car to roll backwards.
The Orient Express .
Loupart's car awaits the crooks.
Kessler and Barru, Wine & Spirits
Mr. Bordier and Mr. Pontarlier:
Following our discussions and to seal our partnership in the St. Blaise distillery, please receive from our representative
150 thousand-franc notes, cut in half.
The other halves will be delivered in 30 days, after the contract's clauses have been honoured.
Sincerely, Kessler & Barru.
Loupart decides to get the missing halves from Kessler & Barru.
But also to rid himself of his arch enemy.
To Juve, National Police, Paris.
All is well.
To close the case, be at the Bercy warehouse, alone but armed, tomorrow night at 11 o'clock, near the Kessler wine cellars.
Your friend, Fandor.
The following night,
Juve arrives at the Bercy warehouse carrying his trusty pistol.
Fandor, expecting the bandits to come to Bercy to get the rest of the banknotes, is also there.
Fantômas's gang sets fire to the barrels.
Part Two
AT THE “CROCODILE”
A few weeks later, Joséphine, in the company of an American boxer, is popping the champagne at the Crocodile.
Juve and Fandor, to relax their frayed nerves, had also come to enjoy a night out in Montmartre.
 But... It's the strumpet,
Loupart's accomplice, the woman on the train.
 Allow me to introduce my friend
Inspector Juve, National Police.
 Where is Chaleck?
Answer me or I'll arrest you .
A gentleman is waiting for you outside.
And 10 minutes later...
Part Three:
THE HAUNTED VILLA
Seeking to forget,
Lady Beltham, Fantômas's accomplice from when he called himself Gurn, now resides in a convent in Neuilly.
Lady,
Do you still refuse to see me?
Last night, I visited your empty villa and was shocked to find it up for sale.
There, alone in the dark,
I relived our past.
Lady, I must speak with you.
Meet me Wednesday at midnight in what was once your room.
Gurn
Wednesday, shortly before midnight, in the shadows of the garden.
Again under his spell, she promises to return to the villa every Wednesday at midnight.
One morning shortly after, two figures patrol near the villa.
Pretending to be potential buyers,
Juve and Fandor visit the house.
This pen was used less than two days ago.
Do you come here to do your correspondence, my friend?
There's a light in this room each Wednesday.
I think the house is haunted .
 Obviously.
Ghosts come here every Wednesday to pen love letters .
It's the heating vent for the furnace in the basement.
The cistern for rain water.
The following Wednesday at midnight.
Lady Beltham arrives as usual.
Without noticing Juve and Fandor,
Fantômas closes the vent to block the cold draft.
Yes, we'll run away together but in four days, when my silent executioner will have finally gotten rid of Juve .
Four nights later, with Fandor's help,
Juve prepares himself for the visit of his mysterious  silent executioner.
Shortly before dawn.
The silent executioner.
The steel spikes turn out to be ineffective.
 Help me, Fandor .
Part Four
THE MAN IN BLACK
That morning,
Fantômas daydreams of Lady Beltham in the garden of her empty villa.
The cops want to finish him, but instead, he'll finish them .
Informed of his presence,
Juve orders his men to storm the villa.
 Listen .
It sounds like breathing...
 The silent executioner.
Farewell, men of justice.
THE MUSKETEERS
OF PIG ALLEY
New York's other side.
The poor musician goes away to improve his fortune.
Later.
The little lady meets Snapper Kid, the chief of the Musketeers.
Alone.
The musician returning with replenished purse,
...meets the Musketeers in Pig Alley.
The musician determined to recover his stolen money.
A friend tries to cheer the little lady.
The little lady at the gangster's ball.
Fear of the big boss forces them to settle the fight outside.
The gangsters feudal war.
One good turn deserves another.
Links in the system.
Part One
THEFT AT THE ROYAL PALACE HOTEL
One o'clock in the morning.
Princess Sonia Danidoff returns to her hotel.
The envelope is ready.
Would Your Highness care to verify the 120,000 francs are all there?
Terrified, the Princess raises the alarm.
 I'll run to fetch the police.
Shortly thereafter, Princess Danidoff receives a visit from the inspector.
INSPECTOR JUVE
NATIONAL POLICE
Part Two
THE DISAPPEARANCE OF LORD BELTHAM
In Inspector Juve's office, he and his friend Jérôme Fandor, a reporter for The Capital, read about the latest crimes.
The Royal Palace Hotel affair, the disappearance of Lord Beltham...
The public is troubled by this wave of unsolved crimes.
A knock at the door.
NATIONAL POLICE
Inspector Juve is assigned to locate Lord Beltham now mysteriously missing for over a week.
Foul play: is suspected.
Chief of National Police
Inspector Juve goes to Lady Beltham's villa.
Meanwhile, the missing man's wife drinks in the words of a certain Gurn, enthralled by his brooding charm.
The public is alarmed at recent events:
First, the Royal Palace Hotel theft and now, the mysterious disappearance of wealthy Englishman Lord Beltham.
After 10 days, Lady Beltham's searches remain fruitless.
Every citizen must ask:
What are the police doing?
When questioned, police officials seem to have been struck dumb.
Shall Paris become a place where honest folk fear to walk the streets?
Inspector Juve
National Police
Peculiarly excited, Gurn agrees to remain hidden in an adjoining room from which he can eavesdrop.
 Did Lord Beltham leave any clues?
An address book, perhaps?
 Do you know this Gurn, Madame?
To the Director of the South Steamship Co.
Please pick up three trunks from my home at 147, rue Bevert, 20th arrondissement to be sent to Johannesburg, where I shall have them collected.
The concierge will unlock my apartment for you. Gurn.
Juve decides to visit Gurn at the address he's found...
Please pick up three trunks from my home at 147, rue Bevert, 20th arrondissement to be sent to Johannesburg, where I shall have them collected.
A body.
Blank calling cards.
And so, Gurn and Fantômas are one and the same...
For months, Juve and Fandor keep constant watch over Lady Beltham's villa.
The next day, the headline of the Gaulois.
THE TURBULENT ARREST OF GURN
A MAN SOUGHT BY THE POLICE
FOR MONTHS
Part Three
ALONGSIDE THE GUILLOTINE
Ever since Gurn has been sentenced to death, a car stops each night outside the prison.
Lady Beltham finally makes contact with a certain Nibet, prison guard.
Nibet tells his colleague about the deal he's made with the lovely schemer.
Be brave.
Lady Beltham
On Gurn's orders,
Nibet goes to Lady Beltham's villa.
I hereby receive the sum of 100,000 francs in exchange for arranging a 15-minute meeting between Lady Beltham and the condemned man, Gurn, at a house near the prison.
March 12, 1912
Meanwhile, Paris is entertained by what once made it tremble.
Valgrand, on the stage of the Grand Tréteau, prepares to play the condemned man.
For the Grand Tréteau's new production,
The Bloody Stain,
Valgrand has modelled his performance after Gurn, Lord Beltham's murderer.
On the day before Gurn's execution, this is a sinister coincidence.
Lady Beltham, from far back in a box, is struck, more than any other, by the actor's resemblance to his model.
The première of The Bloody Stain draws to a close and the audience admires
Valgrand's performance of the condemned man's last morning.
Sir, Your performance touched the very depths of my heart.
Allow me to congratulate you.
I have a request which
I hope will not seem too strange...
After the show, would you join me for tea in my apartment on Boulevard Arago?
Naturally, for this secret visit, my dearest wish would be for you to keep on the costume and make-up which, as you've guessed, make you resemble the darkest despair of my soul.
Lady Beltham
74, boulevard Arago
P.S. Enter through the garden.
Tomorrow morning, the infamous murderer Gurn will be executed.
All remember the trial, followed nationwide, in which the cynical criminal aroused public indignation with his anarchic retorts.
Tomorrow before dawn, it is with relief that the awaiting crowd shall witness dropping into the basket a head possessed by criminal guile rather than philosophy, art and science.
As he walks,
Valgrand passes by the prison.
Meanwhile,
Nibet and his accomplice, bribed  by Lady Beltham, remove Gurn from his cell.
In a rented apartment on Boulevard Arago,
Lady Beltham anxiously awaits the one to whom she was bound by love and murder.
Did you fix the sugar?
The door bell rings.
As the narcotic takes effect,
Valgrand is overcome by an irresistible drowsiness.
The fifteen minutes have passed, and the guards return to fetch their prisoner.
 Hear that hammering?
They're erecting the guillotine for Valgrand.
Deceived, Nibet and his accomplice return to the prison with the fake Gurn.
Dawn approaches and Gurn forces Lady Beltham to watch the executioner's final preparations.
In the prison, Juve, Fandor and the officials await the condemned man.
The grim procession arrives at last.
Even with all your tricks, you can't escape me forever, Fantômas.
Back at Juve's office, the two friends swear to bring the criminal to justice.
The young reporter writes an item for The Capital.
An astonishing occurrence at the prison this morning:
As the executioner began to remove the condemned man's collar, mere instants before his execution, we realized that the man about to be decapitated was not the condemned man.
By what machination was the actor
Valgrand substituted for Gurn?
An investigation will perhaps reveal the truth.
In the meantime,
Fantômas is still alive.
And he is at liberty.
Fantômas is at liberty...
Juve's worst nightmare.
After the explosion at Lady Beltham's villa,
Jérôme Fandor, gravely injured, is slowly recovering.
THE FIGHT AGAINST THE BANDITS
AFTERMATH OF THE TERRIBLE
EXPLOSION IN NEUILLY
The gardens surrounding Lady Beltham's villa on Richard-Wallace Blvd. in Neuilly were an apocalyptic sight.
The wreckage teemed with police, rescue workers and ambulance crews pulling charred and dismembered bodies from the rubble.
The nameless bodies attest to the violence of the explosion.
INSPECTOR JUVE
AMONG THE VICTIMS
Reading these words,
Fandor realises the gaping hole the loss of his friend is going to create in his life.
Next to the courthouse, a second-hand shop run by Ma Toulouche, a well-known fence.
She's recently hired a simpleton nicknamed Crânajour due to the fact that his cranium seems singularly empty.
Toulouche's right-hand man, a prison guard named Nibet...
The cellar under the shop connects to the sewers which empty into the Seine.
Part One
THE TRAGEDY IN RUE NORVINS
Jacques Dollon, a young ceramist, works on rue Norvins in the heart of Montmartre.
The next morning, the cleaning lady arrives.
Terrified, she returns with the police.
 Baroness de Vibraye, dead.
But how did she get here?
Dear Madame,
If you'd care to visit Montmartre one evening,
I'd love to show you some ceramics
I'm preparing for the salon.
My sister Elisabeth should return soon.
Humbly and respectfully yours,
Jacques Dollon
Unable to prove his innocence, the young artist is brought before the investigating judge.
In the Anthropometry Department.
Jacques Dollon, dazed, is then transferred to a courthouse holding cell.
In his cell, Jacques Dollon falls prey to a vicious attack.
Once again, it's Nibet at work.
Mean while, in The Capital’s newsroom,
Fandor, fully recovered, is finishing his article on the tragedy in rue Norvins.
 Hello, Fandor? Breaking news.
Dollon was found strangled in his cell.
This calls for an update.
Breaking: News
We've learned that Jacques Dollon, who was arrested for the murder of Baroness de Vibraye, has been found strangled in his cell.
Our investigation is under way.
Very quickly,
Fandor arrives at the courthouse, which becomes his second home from that moment on.
He's immediately admitted to the office of Judge Fuselier, who is in charge of the case.
The journalist hands the judge his article entitled  Scandal at the Courthouse.
Elisabeth Dollon, having returned from a voyage, requests the judge's permission to see her brother,
Jacques Dollon, who is being detained in a holding cell.
 Miss, you cannot see your brother...
 He is dead.
 Where is the body?
Comforted by Jérôme Fandor,
Elisabeth Dollon leaves the courthouse, that   House of Tears.
In The Capital's newsroom,
Fandor writes a new article on the courthouse mystery.
How can a corpse disappear from a cell without anyone noticing?
This is the astounding question we may pose the authorities.
JÉRÔME FANDOR,
BE CAREFUL.
THE MATTER YOU ARE INVESTIGATING
IS OF UTMOST IMPORTANCE
BUT MAY HAVE TERRIBLY
DANGEROUS CONSEQUENCES...
It takes more than that to scare the young journalist.
Elisabeth Dollon arrives at rue Norvins to begin the painful inventory of her brother's studio.
Baroness de Vibraye,
April 3, Jacques Dollon
Hold...
Sonia Danidoff, April 19
Thomery, during May
Nanteuil, end of May
Meanwhile, in the sewers under the courthouse on Île de la Cité, the Man in Black prepares to perform a gruesome operation on the  young ceramist's corpse.
Part Two
FANDOR'S INVESTIGATION
Fandor has himself locked up in the courthouse in order to discover how a corpse could disappear from a holding cell there.
Crânajour lodges in the garret over Toulouche's shop, and its skylight overlooks the courthouse roof.
In an air duct, there are tracks...
Midnight. In her shop,
Ma Toulouche plays cards.
Cargo arrives via the Seine at midnight.
Be there to help me unload.
The Sailor.
 To our health, Ernestine.
Nibet is furious at Crânajour for his actions.
But now Fandor knows how a body could have been removed from the holding cell without using the door...
Part Three
THE PRINCESS'S NECKLACE
That evening, the cream of Paris society throngs the party hosted by Thomery, a prominent sugar manufacturer, in honour of his upcoming marriage to Princess Sonia Danidoff.
Thomery shows the princess the boudoir provided for her private use.
An incident.
 Pardon me.
I must fix this tear.
Once again, it's Nibet.
He catches the necklace and calmly walks off.
A senior police official is among the guests.
He immediately begins searching for clues.
 Did you notice that fingerprint?
We've got him.
The next day, in the Anthropometry Department, the senior official compares his photograph with the police files.
The fingerprint is a perfect match to one recently filed...
FIRST AND LAST NAME:
JACQUES DOLLON
BORN FEBRUARY 20, 1888
IN PARIS
PROFESSION:
CERAMIST/PAINTER
RIGHT HAND FINGERPRINTS
I'd like to believe you, but that's absurd.
Dollon died a week ago, and the necklace was stolen last night.
Perhaps so, but Dr. Bertillon's system is infallible.
The print is definitely
Jacques Dollon's.
Part Four
NANTEUIL, THE BANKER
A few weeks later, in the banker's office.
To Nanteuil, from Detouche.
Market order to buy 500 shares of Thomery stock, deliverable in five days.
 Sir, a lady asks to see you.
She wouldn't give her name.
Lady Beltham, Fantômas's mistress, accomplice and victim.
Unable to resist her tyrant, the poor woman obeys.
We have reason to believe that Princess Sonia Danidoff would be interested in these pearls, which are just as fine as those stolen from her.
We could obtain a similar necklace for her at an excellent price.
3 o'clock, Weber Restaurant,
Buttes-Chaumont Park.
Thomery goes to the princess to tell her of the dastardly extortion.
The meeting at Weber Restaurant.
The emissary of the thief is waiting.
Part Five
ELISABETH DOLLON
The young lady has taken lodgings at Bourrat's boardinghouse in Auteuil.
Baroness de Vibraye,
April 3, Jacques Dollon
Hold...
Sonia Danidoff, April 19
Thomery, during May
Nanteuil, end of May
Bourrat's boardinghouse is quite reputable, but, due to a premonition,
Elisabeth seeks a hiding place for the strange list.
She resolves to accept the aid
Jérôme Fandor offered her.
Dear Mr. Fandor,
In my brother's studio,
I found a strange list of names and dates, which recent crimes have given a sinister meaning.
I don't dare risk mailing it.
Would you come get it tomorrow at Bourrat's boardinghouse?
At midnight.
Fantômas himself comes to search for the list he lost at Jacques Dollon's.
Elisabeth is deeply asleep, doubtlessly due to the herbal tea she drank before bed...
After a fruitless search,
Fantômas decides the young woman will take his secret to the grave.
The next morning,
Fandor arrives at The Capital.
In my brother's studio, I found a strange list of names and dates, which recent crimes have given a sinister meaning.
I don't dare risk mailing it.
Would you come get it tomorrow at Bourrat's boardinghouse?
Elisabeth has regained consciousness.
Fandor decides to hide her in a convent for her safety.
And Fandor goes to recover the mysterious document.
Baroness de Vibraye,
April 3, Jacques Dollon
Hold... ditto
Sonia Danidoff, April 19
Thomery, during May
Nanteuil, end of May
Footsteps on the stairs...
A police captain with a striking resemblance to Nanteuil, the banker, accompanied by an aide oddly similar to Nibet, the guard...
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
SEARCH WARRANT
By order of Judge Fuselier,
Captain Dulac is authorised to immediately search the lodgings of Elisabeth Dollon at Bourrat's boarding house in Auteuil.
By taking everything,
Fantômas is sure to finally recover the incriminating list.
But... it's Thomery.
Shaken, Fandor returns to The Capital's newsroom.
The editor requests Fandor to write an article as soon as possible on Thomery's mysterious disappearance, which has been causing his company's stocks to crash over the past 24 hours.
Thomery, during May
Nanteuil, end of May
Jérôme listen to this.
Havas News Agency
We have learned that
Mr. Thomery's body has just been found in an empty apartment on rue Lecourbe.
The deceased had been strangled with a police chief's scarf on which were found, once again, the fingerprints of Jacques Dollon, who committed suicide in his holding cell.
The fake police chief at Bourrat's boardinghouse.
His scarf around
Thomery's corpse's neck.
Once again,
Jacques Dollon's fingerprints...
Nothing but bizarre clues.
Part Six
THE GLOVES OF HUMAN SKIN
That morning, near police headquarters at quai des Orfèvres,
Fandor again studies the mysterious list sorely missing his friend Juve's intuition.
Juve's office.
 It's you, Juve...
It's really you.
 I needed to hide.
Thanks to Crânajour,
I was able to get close to Fantômas's gang and save your life in the sewers.
Baroness de Vibraye,
April 3, Jacques Dollon
Hold... ditto
Sonia Danidoff, April 19
Thomery, during May
Nanteuil, end of May
You and I are going to pay this Nanteuil a visit.
JÉRÔME FANDOR
JOURNALIST, THE CAPITAL
INSPECTOR JUVE
NATIONAL POLICE
 The secret of the dead man's prints.
The skin of Jacques Dollon's hands.
 You're finished, Fantômas.
Once again,
Fantômas escapes the police.
Once again, the fearsome bandit is at large in a society against which he plans nothing but ruin and suffering.
