Richard Oswald's "Uncanny Tales" debuted with a length of 2,318 meters on July 16th 1920 after a preview screening on November 6, 1919.
The original negative is considered lost. This partial restoration is a copy of the nitrate film conserved by the
Cinémathèque Française. The film currently has a length of 2,230 meters.
UNCANNY TALES
A prelude with an antiquarian bookseller.
The Devil - The Prostitute - Death
The Apparation
By Anselma Heine
"My husband is crazy..."
"Despite our divorce, he pursues me wherever I go."
"The lady is number 117 on the first floor, Mr. Zimmer is number 328 on the third."
"I don't feel well.
Leave me alone."
"We have no free rooms in the entire hotel."
Among old friends.
2 A.M.
"I've scared myself...
I must've had the wrong number!"
The next morning.
"Please announce me to the lady in number 117."
"That room is empty."
"You arrived alone."
"The name of the woman is not found in our registry book."
At the police station.
"I know of the case-- you arrived alone."
"That man has had relations with my wife."
"Last night..."
"Nobody was allowed to say that she had died from the plague."
The Hand.
By Robert Liebmann
"She must decide in favor of one of the two of us."
Several years later.
"Tonight is my debut as a ballerina.
Come and see me."
That night.
After the performance.
"Let's shake the table."
"In total silence, we can speak with the spirits of the dead."
"Are you afraid?"
The Black Cat.
By Edgar Allan Poe
"That man over there has a beautiful wife."
Later.
The next day.
"Where is the cat?"
The next day.
"My wife has left on a trip."
"He killed his wife."
"Everyone knows..."
"We want to search the house..."
"You have a basement, too?"
"He entombed the cat along with his wife."
The Suicide Club.
By Robert Louis Stevenson
"That house is uninhabited."
"It's just a suicide club."
"Would you like to be a member of the club?"
"Let him go. You have no right to kill."
"That lady is my sister.
You are part of a club; where one is free to join but never free to leave."
Abandon all hope
Ye who enter here
"Let us honor the man who, yesterday, sat in this spot."
"Whoever draws the ace of spades dies tonight."
"I've been here two years and have never drawn the ace of spades."
"If push this button... you will be unable to get up."
"If I push this button... you will die."
"When the clock strikes twelve..."
"Fear killed him."
"If I push this button... you will be unable to get up."
"If I push this button... you will die."
Artur Silas
Police Commissioner
The Spectre.
By Richard Oswald
Me, a young woman...it's silly, I fear! / I feel completely isolated here.
My husband is interested in every little thing, / Except for I, who wears his ring.
In our domain, a goodly knight / Has been wounded in a daring fight.
His mount is well beyond repair. / We shall rest him in this chair.
I beg you consider this chateau / As you would your own home.
But please ignore me, I must espouse / For I am but a husbandly spouse.
I know not of fear, for my part! / The fires of courage burn in my heart.
In a duel yesterday, while I smiled, / I struck down a lieutenant like he was a child.
For such brave exploits does he strive! / With him, any woman would feel alive.
This is completely out of touch / With you, who lacks oh so much.
Duty calls my heart / Away from these fair parts.
In your strong protection, / I leave my wife with you, dear baron!
What bravery! He shows such bluster / That I could never hope to muster.
With my wife I would never jest, / That man had more strength than all the rest.
Can you feel my heart burning for you? / A woman who loves her husband, it is true
That in this tale of history / There is nothing strange nor uncanny.
<b>F I N</b>
The Divine Comedy by Dante Alighieri.
HELL
Art direction:
Francesco Bertolini, Adolfo Padovan
Technical direction:
Emilio Roncarolo
Dante: Salvatore Papa
Virgilio Arturo Pirovano
Conte Ugolino: G. Liguoro
Lucifero: A. Milla
Contributor:Emilio Beretta
Dante imagines himself lost in a dark and rough jungle.
"Half way through life I was in a dark forest, because I had lost the right path."
Three beasts - a panther, a lion and a wolf -
Prevent Dange from climbing up the hill of salvation.
Beatrice descends from heaven in limbo with Virgil and begs to help Dante.
"I, Beatrice, am the one who makes you walk;
Site come desire to return;
Love moves me, and leads me to talk.
Fifteen
Dante, saved by Virgil, addresses his company in hell.
"I went the hard and wild way."
Hell's Gate.
"For me it leads to the suffering city, for me it leads to eternal suffering,
For me it is to people convicted.
Abandon, all hope, ye who enter here! "
The river Acheron on which Charon transports souls to the other shore.
"Charon, demon, with eyes of fire, calls all collected; lashes with the paddle anyone who is late."
Limbo, where all are punished who were not baptized.
"... Living without hope in the desire."
Homer, Horace, Ovid and Lucan, welcome Virgil and Dante who they agree with him.
"Being the sixth among such great sages."
The noble castle, which houses the great spirits.
Minos, who judges the souls and assigns punishment.
"There Minos growled horribly."
Lustful, tormented by a whirlpool.
"The infernal storm, which never ceases, he leads to the spirits his prey,
He harasses and beats them back."
Paolo and Francesca.
"What pigeons calls of desire, sweet nest with raised wing, they will want the wind to carry them. "
The story of Francesca.
"We read one day a delight, how hurt love of Lanzarote; alone together without any suspicion."
Dante, touched by Francesca's story, sees her vanish.
"And I fell as a dead body falls."
Cerberus, cruel beast, guards gluttons, barking with three mouths, and offense afflicts them.
The wolverines, drenched by an eternal rain, howl like dogs.
Ciaco predicts to Dante that bloody feuds will rend Florence.
Pluto guards prodigals and misers.
Prodigal and covetous, with a chest dragging heavy weights ... injuring each other
The Styx, in which are immersed sloths and the angry, beaten in various ways.
Flegias, the famous atheist, transports Dante and Virgil to the city of Dis.
Filippo Argenti is recognized and offended.  Dante tries to hit him.
"... He held out both hands to a tree; the teacher avoided more prudent, saying, "Go with the other dogs!"
The city of Dis, where the infidels are punished.
Dante, rejected and hindered by demons, threatened ... by the presence of three rages on the tower, is aided by the help of an angel.
Heretics, buried in tombs of fire.
Farinata degli Uberti.  Dante predicted his exile.
"... He stood with his chest and forehead as if to despise hell itself."
Cavalcanti questioned by his son, Guido.
The tomb of Pope Anastasius.
Victim of suicide, converted into gnarled trunks, where harpies nest.
"... I cut a branch of a large blackthorn; and its trunk cried, 'Why do you hurt me?'"
Pier Della Vigna, accused of treason, deprived of his sight by order of Emperor Frederick II.
After the torture, he committed suicide.
Wasteful wealth itself, persecuted and lacerated by dogs.
"The forest was filled behind them with black dogs, running and barking."
Violence against God, nature and art, tortured by a rain of fire.
Capaneo.
"... The largest unconcerned fire and lies scornful and fierce."
The poets descend into the Malebolge on the shoulders of Gerión.
"She goes swimming slowly, very slowly; turns and descends ..."
The ten graves of Malebolge.
First circle
Ruffians, punished by demons, are whipped.
Second circle
Flatterers and loose women are immersed in manure.
Alesio Interminei and Thais.
"... That dirty and disheveled slave, that there scratches with her nails, and now she lies there.  Thais is the prostitute "
Third Circle
The greedy are buried upside down, with the soles of their feet on fire.
Pope Nicholas III.
Dante rages against the Papacy.
Fourth Circle
Soothsayers, neck and face twisted, walking backwards.
Fifth Circle
The angry, immersed in boiling pitch, are guarded by demons.
Malacoda choose the ten demon devils to escort the poets.
Ciampolo falls into the power of the demons and, deceiving them, escapes.
Two of them are fighting.
Demons chasing the poets.
Sixth Circle
Hypocrites, walking under heavy blankets of lead.
Caiaphas, crucified on the floor and trampled by anyone who passes.
Seventh Circle
Thieves, bitten horribly by snakes.
Vanni Fucci predicted to Dante the defeat of the Whites.
Thieves of public money, men converted into snakes and vice versa.
Eighth Circle
Fraudulent counselors, each wrapped in a flame.
"... Odysseus and Diomedes are in there, tortured ..."
Ninth Circle
Those who sow discord and schisms, mutilated by demons.
Muhammad with his torn chest.
Born Bertram head disembodied.
"Gripping the head hair cut short, like a lantern carrying it in your hand."
Tenth Circle
Counterfeiters, converted to lepers, crazy and sick.
The Nembrot, Efialte, Antaeus. Giant
Anteo holds the poets in his hands.
"... Slightly in the background, ...
... He led us."
Traitors, submerged in the frozen lake of Cocytus.
The Antenora
The traitors of the motherland.
Dante does not want to reveal who they are.
Count Ugolino, gnawing on the skull of Archbishop Ruggeri.
"From the fierce meal he lifted his mouth."
Count Ugolino recounts the story of his death ... and his sons, in the Tower of Pisa.
"... And it was me, and blind, groping about for them,
Two days I called to them, but they were dead.  After the pain followed more fasting."
The Tolomea
Friends, traitors.
Friar Alberigo prays to Dante to remove the ice from their eyes.
Judea
The traitors of their benefactors.
Lucifer.
The underground way.
The poets leave hell.
"By which we left to contemplate the stars."
Monument to Dante in Trento, Italy.
"HIGHEST HONORS TO A POET"
