Restoration of this film was made possible by donations from
The Gertrude and Ivar Philipson
Foundation
Sir Arne's Treasure a winter ballad in five acts
Sets and wardrove created and supervised by Axel Esbensen
Chief engineer: Mats Lindberg
Directed by
Mauritz Stiller a production of Svensk Filmindustri
During the reign of king Johan III a bitterly cold winter swept over Sweden, the likes of which had never been seen in living memory.
The king discovered a conspiracy among his Scottish mercenary troops.
The soldiers of fortune were ordered to leave, and were kept under guard until crossing the border.
Their leaders were bold and fearless men.
They were arrested and sent to the tower.
Sir Philip...   Eric Stocklassa
Sir Donald...   Bror Berger
...and the youngest,
Sir Archie...   Richard Lund
As long as they remained within the bounds of Swedish rule, they dare not reveal their identities. They donned rough hides and claimed to be journeyman tanners, roaming the country in search of work.
...and by the time they reached the border, they were completely famished.
In those days, in Marstrand, there lived an impoverished fish hawker, a man known as Torarin. Most of his time was spent on the road selling salted and dried fish.
Torarin... Axel Nilson
"I have had great news today, Grim. The sea has frozen over.
Not only the bays and sounds -- but quite far out to sea."
"Since we will pass by the vicarage at Solberga, we could stop there and ask if the ice will bear our weight all the way to Marstrand."
Generally, the dog was still and merely blinked at his master words.
But when he heard something that displeased him, he climbed on top of the load they carried, pointed his nose skyward, and howled.
"Dear dog, what do you have against Solberga?
Have we not many times swung past the vicarage to pay visit to Sir Arne?"
At the vicarage - the state known as Solberga - the vicar, Sir Arne, ate his supper in the company of his housefolk.
The vicar was an old man who retained his dignity and vigor.
Sir Arne... Hjalmar Selander
While the years had not been kind to his wife.
The vicar's wife...   Concordia Selander
Seated on the other side of Sir Arne was the curate.
Curate...   Gösta Gustafson
At the far end of the table were Sir Arne's niece, Berghild, and her foster sister Elsalill, an orphan taken in by the vicar's household.
Elsalill...   Mary Johnson
Berghild...   Wanda Rothgardt
The only person present not belonging to the household was Torarin...
...and his gaze kept returning to the iron-clad chest at the foot of the four-poster bed. This is were Sir Arne stored a fortune in silver coins, and it was said they filled the chest to the very brim.
Though Torarin was a man of little means, he had no desire to possess this fortune, for he had heard that Sir Arne had taken the money from the large monasteries that once flourished in this country and that the old monks had prophesied that the money would bring ill-fortune.
"Why are they sharpening knives over at Branehög?"
"Tell me, why are they sharpening such long knives over at Branehög on this very night?"
"Do you not hear the scraping and filing?
Do you not hear the hissing and squealing?"
"How can you hear them sharpening knives over at Branehög?
That estate is miles away. Pray let us finish our supper.
Act II
That very evening a banquet was held at the inn at Branehög...
...and all the townspeople were invited.
"The old saying holds true:
The closest neighbor is the last to arrive."
"I'll still see them in my mind's eye -- sharpening their knives.
God only knows what they plan."
"Fortunately the lady vicar's vision was no more ominous than a few journeyman tanners preparing the tools of their trade."
Long after mignight, a few men left the inn at Branehög in order to saddle their horses and return home.
"Come out! Come out!
The vicarage is on fire!"
"Last night Sir Arne and his entire household were murdered by three men... who entered the house though the smoke-hole in the roof.. men dressed in rough hides."
"Sir Arne's horse is gone... and so is the sleigh!"
Act III
The impoverished young maid, the sole survivor of the bloodbath, was taken by Torarin to come live with him and his mother in their cottage.
Torarin's cottage was situated at the highest point of the island --
-- and all the Scottish mercenaries, mariners and fishermen, locked in by the ice at Marstrand, used to pass by his cottage on their way to see if the sea had begun to cast off its blanket of ice.
Often were the times Elsalill gazed upon those who passed by.
She would ponder how blessed they were, to have something to look forward to. She yearned for nothing on earth.
"I am not wealthy enough, Elsalill, to feed and clothe you-- so that you may remain idle and nurture your grief."
"Oh, Mother Katri! The last to be slain was my foster sister.
She pleaded for mercy, but one of the men stabbed her in the heart."
"Had I not hidden behind a wall, I would be with my dear foster sister now!"
"I hope they are alive, so I may rip their hearts from their chests!
I hope they are alive, so I may see them drawn and quartered!"
"We did not come to frighten you, good maiden, but to ask you to share your tale with us."
"We came to Marstrand to book passage to Scotland but all the fjords and sounds are frozen. Now we while away the hours, and would be much obliged if you would share your tale with us."
"Show the gentleman you do not lack the breeding to respond properly, Elsalill! You were born to a higher station and are not a lowly fish wench."
After that day, Sir Archie often ventured to Torarin's cottage to speak to Elsalill.
"God himself has sent you to me, Elsalill!"
"Elsalill, will you accompany me to Scotland ...as my wife?"
"There I will build you a castle -- of wich you will be the distinguished mistress."
"Do you see the hair entwining my hand, Elsalill?
Do you see the lock of fair hair?"
"In this very same manner the hair of my foster sister was twisted around the hand of her killer."
"We frighten ourselves, unnecessarily, Elsalill.
Look, it was but a few sunbeams shining in from the window."
"Sir Archie! Sir Archie!
Why must you call the dead to mind?"
"Leave me, leave me, Sir Archie. For now my mind dwells solely upon the dead."
"Grim, my dear dog, you can no longer doubt that we travel across the sea. Look -- a large ship is locked in the ice."
"What do you say? Shall we call to the skipper and see if he wants to buy our fish?"
If the ice does not break, it would be impossible to set sail for Scotland. Sir Archie wishes to discuss this matter with the skipper.
"A man like yourself, who travels everywhere and hears everything, do you know why God keeps the gates of the sea barred for so long...?
Holding us all captive?"
"Once I spent a whole month in Bergen, when headwinds were so strong not a single ship could put out."
The skipper...   Gustav Aronson
"You see, one of the ships stuck in the harbor was carrying a man who had stolen from the church. And he would have escaped, had it not been for the raging storm."
"As soon as he was brought ashore, the weather turned beautiful and the wind grew peaceful."
"Do you know why I asked why God keeps the gates of the sea barred?"
"He requested passage to Scotland for himself and his men, but I do not like to have such ruffians aboard my vessel."
Act IV
Not long afterwards, Elsalill had a peculiar dream.
She thought she saw her dead foster sister standing before her...
Elsalill saw that they were in a room where the proprietress of the tavern had her maid stationed to wash dishes and tankards.
Her sister seemed to beckon her to help wash.
The next day, the dream lingered and would not fade...
...and she was irresistibly drawn to the places her foster sister had taken her in the dream.
"Rather than simply standing there, you might come in and give me a hand with the dishes."
"Drink my brother!
Sir Arne's treasure is not yet gone."
She could not betray him. He was dear to her heart. She could not send him to be drawn and quartered. She could not bear to see his hands and feet seared off.
"God bless you for coming to see me tonight, Elsalill."
"Elsalill, I have not been to see you for many days, since grave thoughts plagued me. But when I happened upon you just now, my heart told me what I must to do -- to be released from my torment."
"I weep, Sir Archie, for the love I bear in my heart for you is too strong."
"Soon the sea will open and ships will be able to set sail to the country from which I come. Elsalill, won't you go with me?"
"You must go with me, Elsalill, or I will be doomed."
"Tonight I will come for you, Elsalill.
I must have your decision... tonight."
"Why are you out here weeping?
Why did you not stay in the cellar?"
"I left because I did not wish to hear the words of the evil-doers on your premises."
"I happened, however, to hear three men talking and one said,
'Drink, my brother, Sir Arne's treasure is not yet gone.'"
"If you can witness such words, it is best not to flee. You must go with me to the rightful authorities so they may seize the murderers and duly punish them."
Act V
The skipper sent word to Sir Archie and his men that they may board ship this evening. The sea has begun to open up to the west. They may even escape to Scotland before dawn.
"Go to the inn and settle things.
I must speak to Elsalill before we depart."
"Sir Reginald and Philip have gone to the inn while Sir Archie has gone to Torarin's cottage."
"Make haste and fly, the town guards are after you!"
"They are looking for the men who murdered Sir Arne."
"Did you recognize me, Elsalill, and set them upon me?"
"They are coming for you... Go!"
"Have you considered that I will no longer have a hope of ever redeeming myself?"
"Why did you do it, Sir Archie?"
"We had been driven mad by hunger and the cold.
We were senseless with drink. I did not know what I was doing."
"Why do you betray me... just when I trustred you most?"
"Do not fear me, Elsalill. I am again the man I once was.
I have returned to my senses..."
"...and no harm will befall you on this night either,
I assure you."
Using Elsalill as a shield,
Sir Archie ran for the door.
A wild wolf of the woods she had loved.
An evil murderer she shielded with her own body.
And as Sir Archie took another step, the pike plunged into Elsalill's heart.
All night long the skipper paced the deck of his ketch...
Who could know what possessed the skipper to be out on such a night as this. His crew was safely aboard ship, and so were the passengers destined for Scotland.
It was not until dawn's early light that the skipper saw the sight he was longing for.
Fjords and sounds were now open far out to sea.
But the inlet where his ship was iced in showed no channels -- it was frozen solid.
"I implore you to help me find the maid whom the Scotsmen brought to your ship last night..."
"Last night she was abducted by the men who killed
Sir Arne and they brought her to your ship."
"The town guard will not venture out this far.
Not to a ship carrying a hundred soldiers of fortune.
They are unwilling to engage them in battle..."
"Now I know why we have been held back... while all other ships may put to sea. It is because we have evildoers on board."
"Stay calm and obey that man.
This is the will of God."
As soon as the criminals were brought to shore, the storm began to rage again.
And from his lofty vantage point of deck, the skipper saw a lengthy procession approach his skip.
It was the womenfolk of Marstrand, both young and old.
They were clad in mourning, and youn men carried a bier.
They had come to collect the young maiden who had loved an evildoer... and had given her life to destroy him.
...and in their wake, the tempest tore up the ice over wich they had but lately passed.
By the time they reached Marstrand with Elsalill, the gates of the sea stood open.
The end
The musical score for Sir Arne's Treasure is the result of a collaboration between the
Swedish Film Institute and Swedish Filmindustry
The score was co-written by Matti Bye and Fredrik Emilson
Instrumentatilst:
Sir Arne's Treasure was restored by the
Swedish Film Institute Archive in 2000.
The original tints were recreated and footage discovered in London and Copenhagen has been restored.
Subtitles: Ingrid Eng-Rundlow
Father Sergius
Based on the story by Tolstoy [not Tchekov!].
Great success, thanks to the perfect mastery of the Russian director, Yakov Protazanov, who adapted the work of the great writer.
Several years have gone by.
The cinematographic art has made huge progress.
And yet "Father Sergius" still stands as an important landmark in the cinema history of Russia, and has lost none of its artistic value. 
The father of Prince Kossotski, colonel of the guard in retirement, had pronounced, as he lay dying, his wish that his son follow a career in the army.
The children...
Six years went by. Kossotski distinguished himself at the Academy for his brilliant skills and infinite pride.
And would have been an outstanding cadet, if not for his violent temper.
"These chops are inedible!"
"Silence! To solitary confinement...forward, march!"
Nikolai Pavlovitch often came to visit the regiment.
When he was 18 years old, Kossotski was promoted to officer in the aristocratic regiment of the guard. and as always...
Ten years went by. Kossotski seemed like a completely ordinary officer.
But he had one secret goal: to obtain the most brilliant position in high society.
Countess Korotbova, one of the Empress' favorite maids of honor, was at first very cold towards him.
"The dances will soon begin."
"First, the mazurka."
"Will you promise me the mazurka, countess?"
"You are dancing, you are having fun, I am pleased, very pleased."
"You have promised me the mazurka, countess."
"I am tired."
"Sincerely in love with Mary, Kassotski's passion does not let him see what everyone knows: She is Nikolai's mistress."
"People are beginning to talk about us...
It would be good if you could find a husband."
"But... maybe, it is possible."
"I understand, your Highness."
The following day.
"My daughter and I would be very pleased to see you."
Two months later, Kossotski proposes.
"Look how beautiful it is over there."
"I would like to have an answer."
"As mother wishes."
"I am very happy, Prince."
"Mother... and what if he finds out?"
"But if he loves you truly... he will forgive you, if he finds out."
On the wedding's eve.
"You know... in the beginning I wanted to get closer to you... in a way not entirely disinterested...but then..."
"You are not angry at me?"
"I must tell everything... I loved him."
"We all love him."
"You... were his mistress?"
"By marrying me, you wanted to hide all this."
On the same day.
"I resign... immediately."
Arriving in his village, Kossotski decided very quickly to enter the monastery.
"My decision is firm."
"Perhaps you understand me."
By entering the monastery, Kossotski showed he despised everything that seemed important to others.
"I must speak to the Father Superior."
And soon... and he could...
"Sin is getting the better of me."
Three years later, Prince Stepan Kossotski went into holy orders by the name of Sergius.
Four years later, Sergius was transferred to a large monastery in the capital.
"Tomorrow... will you celebrate the Mass?"
The superior was a skillful man who had achieved his ecclesiastic career with the aid of his relations in high circles.
"And couldn't I see my old comrade, Father Sergius?"
"It's that prince, Kossotski."
"I'm happy to see you in this angelic appearance."
"Abbot... you expose me to temptations."
In order to avoid any temptation,
Sergius becomes a hermit in the far away Tambino desert.
In the nearby town.
"It's always the same. I can't stand it... I'm bored."
Makovkina, an eccentric divorcee, disturbed all of town with her extravagances.
"Careful, it's loaded!"
"This is the road to Tambino."
"I'll spend the night over at Kossotski's."
"Dear Lord, why won't you give me faith?"
"Come get me at three o'clock in the morning."
"Allow me to come inside... I'm freezing."
"I'm not the devil, I'm just a sinner, I'm lost...
I'm looking for refuge."
"I wandered away from the path, and if I hadn't stumbled upon your cell..."
"Sit here... I'll go over there."
"Don't come in.  I'm soaked... my feet are frozen."
"Don't come in.  I must undress to dry myself ..."
"Listen, help me! I don't know what's happening to me."
"Father Sergius... Prince Kossotski!"
"I'll come back at once."
"What's wrong?"
"Let me take care of your wound."
"Go away!"
At three o'clock sharp.
"You have really won your bet.  Congratulations."
The adventure with Makovkina was starting to spread and Father Sergius' reputation was strengthened.
"Cure him, father."
9 years went by.  More and more visitors arrived.
Next to Father Sergius' cell, some monks built a big church.
"Little Father, don't leave us."
"Until tomorrow; today I can't."
"But you don't look like a monk today, my precious."
In the evening, the merchant ordered his daughter to prepare.
"Holy Father! Bless my daughter so that she be cured of her illness. 
It's been two years since she lost her reason.
She doesn't go out during the day... she's afraid of the light."
"I have seen you in my dreams."
"I saw that you would lay your hand on my chest... here, like this."
"What's possessing you... pull yourself together!"
"Really now!"
At dawn.
"We need to cut wood.  Give me the axe."
In the evening he was already far from the monastery.
"I'm going to Tambino to see Father Sergius."
"Sergius is no longer there.  Not any more."
He wanted to pray... but there was no one to pray to...
God was not there.
And he went from village to village, living off alms.
One day.
"Who are you?"
"Where's your passport?"
He was classed among the vagabonds, judged, and sent to Siberia.
THE END
