Richard Oswald's "Uncanny Tales" debuted with a length of 2,318 meters on July 16th 1920 after a preview screening on November 6, 1919.
The original negative is considered lost. This partial restoration is a copy of the nitrate film conserved by the
Cinémathèque Française. The film currently has a length of 2,230 meters.
UNCANNY TALES
A prelude with an antiquarian bookseller.
The Devil - The Prostitute - Death
The Apparation
By Anselma Heine
"My husband is crazy..."
"Despite our divorce, he pursues me wherever I go."
"The lady is number 117 on the first floor, Mr. Zimmer is number 328 on the third."
"I don't feel well.
Leave me alone."
"We have no free rooms in the entire hotel."
Among old friends.
2 A.M.
"I've scared myself...
I must've had the wrong number!"
The next morning.
"Please announce me to the lady in number 117."
"That room is empty."
"You arrived alone."
"The name of the woman is not found in our registry book."
At the police station.
"I know of the case-- you arrived alone."
"That man has had relations with my wife."
"Last night..."
"Nobody was allowed to say that she had died from the plague."
The Hand.
By Robert Liebmann
"She must decide in favor of one of the two of us."
Several years later.
"Tonight is my debut as a ballerina.
Come and see me."
That night.
After the performance.
"Let's shake the table."
"In total silence, we can speak with the spirits of the dead."
"Are you afraid?"
The Black Cat.
By Edgar Allan Poe
"That man over there has a beautiful wife."
Later.
The next day.
"Where is the cat?"
The next day.
"My wife has left on a trip."
"He killed his wife."
"Everyone knows..."
"We want to search the house..."
"You have a basement, too?"
"He entombed the cat along with his wife."
The Suicide Club.
By Robert Louis Stevenson
"That house is uninhabited."
"It's just a suicide club."
"Would you like to be a member of the club?"
"Let him go. You have no right to kill."
"That lady is my sister.
You are part of a club; where one is free to join but never free to leave."
Abandon all hope
Ye who enter here
"Let us honor the man who, yesterday, sat in this spot."
"Whoever draws the ace of spades dies tonight."
"I've been here two years and have never drawn the ace of spades."
"If push this button... you will be unable to get up."
"If I push this button... you will die."
"When the clock strikes twelve..."
"Fear killed him."
"If I push this button... you will be unable to get up."
"If I push this button... you will die."
Artur Silas
Police Commissioner
The Spectre.
By Richard Oswald
Me, a young woman...it's silly, I fear! / I feel completely isolated here.
My husband is interested in every little thing, / Except for I, who wears his ring.
In our domain, a goodly knight / Has been wounded in a daring fight.
His mount is well beyond repair. / We shall rest him in this chair.
I beg you consider this chateau / As you would your own home.
But please ignore me, I must espouse / For I am but a husbandly spouse.
I know not of fear, for my part! / The fires of courage burn in my heart.
In a duel yesterday, while I smiled, / I struck down a lieutenant like he was a child.
For such brave exploits does he strive! / With him, any woman would feel alive.
This is completely out of touch / With you, who lacks oh so much.
Duty calls my heart / Away from these fair parts.
In your strong protection, / I leave my wife with you, dear baron!
What bravery! He shows such bluster / That I could never hope to muster.
With my wife I would never jest, / That man had more strength than all the rest.
Can you feel my heart burning for you? / A woman who loves her husband, it is true
That in this tale of history / There is nothing strange nor uncanny.
<b>F I N</b>
This movie was filmed in Castle
Belvedere in Prague, Palazzo Furstenberg,...
...in Lobkowitz and in other historical places.
"I'm not God, I can't be the devil either, but with disregard,...
...I say your name! Because wherever you are, I'll be there too...
...till your last hour, in front of your tombstone, I'll sit on your tomb!"
The students of Prague... are living the sweet life!
"What's the problem,
Balduin?"
"To the best swordsman of Prague and to the boldest student!"
Scapinelli was popular among students, because of his way of acting, without scruples.
"I'm ruined! I'd like to find some money...
...or a rich heiress!"
"Then I think that the best swordsman in Prague, and the most active student should get a chance!"
The envious Lyduschka knows about old Scarpinelli's swindle, and she's worried for Balduin.
Preparations for hunting, at Count Schwartzenberg's castle.
Countess Margit and her cousin,
Baron Waldis-Schwartzenberg, lose their way.
"Margit, why do we keep postponing our marriage?
You know that your father's desire is to see our families united.
"Dear cousin, I will obey my father's desire, but I don't love you."
"Look! The horse is heading to the lake!"
"Take this locket with my picture inside, as a souvenir of me."
"I will be eternally grateful to you, for saving my daughter's life."
The day after...
"I may be known as Balduin, the best swordsman, but...
...my real enemy, is my mirrored image."
Balduin decides to go to see the Countess.
"Am I allowed to ask how the Countess feels?"
"Mr. Balduin, allow me to introduce to you
Baron Waldis-Schwartzenberg...
...my daughter's future husband."
Balduin, who is only a poor student, takes his leave.
"Dismissed with a thank you...
She, a rich heiress and me...
...nothing but a poor student."
"How did you come in?"
"...through the door!"
"Then, Mr. Student... you won't be just the best swordsman...
...and the wildest student, but also..."
"...the richest!"
"At what price?"
I declare I received 100,000 golden coins, in exchange...
...I give to Mr. Scarpinellii, the right to take whatever he wants...
...from this room. Balduin
Prague, 13th May 1820
"What a strange guy you are!
Something from this hovel!
Take whatever you want!"
I declare I received 100,000 golden coins, in exchange...
...I grant Scapinelli the right to take whatever he wants...
...from this room. Balduin
Prague, 13th May 1820
"You may choose whatever you want!"
"Mr. Student Balduin... I want your image reflected by this mirror.
This is my secret."
"What did you say?
My image?"
"All right... a pact is a pact!"
A new life starts for Balduin...
"I'll be away because of an invitation from the governor"
"Dear Countess, may I...?"
"Finally fate allows us to be alone for a while."
"Margit... I love you!"
"I can't."
Lyduschka follows the couple.
"Goodbye, Mr. Balduin."
"Am I awake or am I dreaming?
Who are you?"
"Do you have problems, my friend?
You turned pale, aren't you feeling well?"
"See... Take a look at your image in the mirror."
"My dear cousin, don't forget you are my fiancée."
Balduin is waiting for the Count's coach...
The Countess, in her room...
"Yes, Balduin, my heart belongs to you!"
Dear Countess, please keep the promise you made,...
...to meet me tomorrow evening at 11, at the usual place.
Lyduschka is searching for the Countess...
Countess Margit goes to her meeting.
"Wait! If you'll go to your meeting, you'll be in serious danger!"
"What does this gypsy want from me?"
Margit tries to be strong, while traveling to the "Sacred Font".
Margit, recalling the gypsy's words, makes the sign of the cross.
"Why did you choose this place?"
"My dear Countess, because of the tranquillity, the peace, the solitude..."
"Who are you?"
"Baron... I think the Countess lost her handkerchief..."
"Do you dare to doubt my fiancée...?"
Balduin, still dazed because of what happened, comes back home...
"Why do you come here, Baron?"
"I don't want to discuss it.
You dishonored my family...
...I'm at your disposal."
Balduin's godfathers talk with the Baron and organize the duel...
"Baron, did you choose... sword or gun?"
"What? Sword? This Balduin is Prague's best swordsman!"
"Why are you here, Count?"
"Give me your word, say that you won't kill the Baron.
He's my sister's only son my daughter's future husband, my heir, and the last one to bear our family's name."
"You have my word, Count."
Balduin goes to the duel...
"Where are you going?"
The promise he made to the Count is broken by his other himself.
Balduin tries to explain the death of the Baron...
"The Baron's family has nothing to say to Mr. Balduin!"
Balduin tries to forget his loved one.
"I want your love, not your money!"
"Do you want to play cards with me?"
"What's the stake?"
"One of us!"
And wherever I will rest, and wherever I will die, there will always be someone behind me, a strange man, dressed in black, as a brother.
"I have to see her again! I have to talk to her and try to explain!"
"Countess, it wasn't my fault!"
Don't hate me!"
"Balduin, where's your image?"
"You can say what you want, who gave you the right to persecute me?"
"I'm not God, I can't be the devil either, but with disregard...
...I say your name!
Because wherever you are I'll be there too...
Balduin runs away, as if the devil was following him...
"He's still following me!"
"Scapinelli, take your money back!"
"I still feel his presence!"
"I'll get rid of you, once and for all...
I'll kill you with my gun!"
"I'm safe!"
"Blood... I'm injured!"
I declare I received 100.000 golden coins, and in exchange...
...I give to Mr. Scarpinelli the right to take whatever he wants...
...from this room. Balduin
Prague, 13th May 1820
"I'm not God, I can't be the devil either, but with disregard...
...I say your name!
Because wherever you are I'll be there...
...till your last hour, in front of your tombstone, I'll sit on your tomb!"
Here lies Balduin.
