Richard Oswald's "Uncanny Tales" debuted with a length of 2,318 meters on July 16th 1920 after a preview screening on November 6, 1919.
The original negative is considered lost. This partial restoration is a copy of the nitrate film conserved by the
Cinémathèque Française. The film currently has a length of 2,230 meters.
UNCANNY TALES
A prelude with an antiquarian bookseller.
The Devil - The Prostitute - Death
The Apparation
By Anselma Heine
"My husband is crazy..."
"Despite our divorce, he pursues me wherever I go."
"The lady is number 117 on the first floor, Mr. Zimmer is number 328 on the third."
"I don't feel well.
Leave me alone."
"We have no free rooms in the entire hotel."
Among old friends.
2 A.M.
"I've scared myself...
I must've had the wrong number!"
The next morning.
"Please announce me to the lady in number 117."
"That room is empty."
"You arrived alone."
"The name of the woman is not found in our registry book."
At the police station.
"I know of the case-- you arrived alone."
"That man has had relations with my wife."
"Last night..."
"Nobody was allowed to say that she had died from the plague."
The Hand.
By Robert Liebmann
"She must decide in favor of one of the two of us."
Several years later.
"Tonight is my debut as a ballerina.
Come and see me."
That night.
After the performance.
"Let's shake the table."
"In total silence, we can speak with the spirits of the dead."
"Are you afraid?"
The Black Cat.
By Edgar Allan Poe
"That man over there has a beautiful wife."
Later.
The next day.
"Where is the cat?"
The next day.
"My wife has left on a trip."
"He killed his wife."
"Everyone knows..."
"We want to search the house..."
"You have a basement, too?"
"He entombed the cat along with his wife."
The Suicide Club.
By Robert Louis Stevenson
"That house is uninhabited."
"It's just a suicide club."
"Would you like to be a member of the club?"
"Let him go. You have no right to kill."
"That lady is my sister.
You are part of a club; where one is free to join but never free to leave."
Abandon all hope
Ye who enter here
"Let us honor the man who, yesterday, sat in this spot."
"Whoever draws the ace of spades dies tonight."
"I've been here two years and have never drawn the ace of spades."
"If push this button... you will be unable to get up."
"If I push this button... you will die."
"When the clock strikes twelve..."
"Fear killed him."
"If I push this button... you will be unable to get up."
"If I push this button... you will die."
Artur Silas
Police Commissioner
The Spectre.
By Richard Oswald
Me, a young woman...it's silly, I fear! / I feel completely isolated here.
My husband is interested in every little thing, / Except for I, who wears his ring.
In our domain, a goodly knight / Has been wounded in a daring fight.
His mount is well beyond repair. / We shall rest him in this chair.
I beg you consider this chateau / As you would your own home.
But please ignore me, I must espouse / For I am but a husbandly spouse.
I know not of fear, for my part! / The fires of courage burn in my heart.
In a duel yesterday, while I smiled, / I struck down a lieutenant like he was a child.
For such brave exploits does he strive! / With him, any woman would feel alive.
This is completely out of touch / With you, who lacks oh so much.
Duty calls my heart / Away from these fair parts.
In your strong protection, / I leave my wife with you, dear baron!
What bravery! He shows such bluster / That I could never hope to muster.
With my wife I would never jest, / That man had more strength than all the rest.
Can you feel my heart burning for you? / A woman who loves her husband, it is true
That in this tale of history / There is nothing strange nor uncanny.
<b>F I N</b>
SEALED ORDERS
Director:
BENJAMIN CHRISTENSEN
Manuscript:
Benjamin Christensen
& Laurids Skands
Cinematography:
Emil Dinesen
Cast:
Lieutenant van Hauen... Benjamin Christensen
His wife... Karen Sandberg
Count Spinelli... Hermann Spiro
Rear-admiral van Hauen... Fritz Lampretch
Jane, the nanny... Amanda Lund
War is impending.
Liutenant van Hauen writes his will.
"Our flag is too good for that!"
Lieutenant van Hauen hands over the will to his wife.
Count Spinelli adores
Mrs. van Hauen
I rashly promised you a picture of myself, but you must not ask for more. I love my husband and my children.
BEWARE OF X AT MIDNIGHT!
...and my love for you could bring many sacrifices.
Yours
Count Spinelli
Orders for Lieutenant van Hauen:
Immediately take charge over the cruiser "Gelderland". van Hauen
Rear-admiral
The fleet of the fatherland
The fleet of the fatherland
At midnight two suspicious characters approach the old mill.
At midnight two suspicious characters approach the old mill.
"That's where the count lives!"
BEWARE OF X AT MIDNIGHT!
Your last intelligence was very valuable. Enclosed fin $10,000. Send all important information by carrier pigeon from X.
...bring you a remembrance of love -- of the lovely hours we could spend together.
Your husband might be suspicious if you do not attend the party.
Thank you for the photo.
I kiss your picture.
Spinelli
The count picks up his guests.
In the afternoon at the count's state
"When can I speak to you -- alone?"
Lieutenant van Hauen's father, rear-admiral van Hauen.
"The war has started!"
A final attempt
"We're at war! -- Long live the fatherland!"
"We're at war! -- Long live the fatherland!"
The letter!
"Can I please have a paper elephant?"
The sealed orders
The sealed orders
"The fatherland expects everyone to perform his duty!"
"Should we say evening prayer for father?"
"Here are the sealed orders"
"Here are the sealed orders"
Orders for 2nd division:
Attack at dawn
-- South -- South West. van Hauen
Rear-admiral
"We have to hurry on board!"
The coat!!
2nd division attacks at dawn
-- South -- South West!
2nd division attacks at dawn
-- South -- South West!
"My son -- a traitor!"
"Examine the sealed orders!"
The next morning
The next morning
Search of the house
"He says that my father has been arrested!"
All of a sudden she sees
Spinelli's words of love in the right light. He is a liar and a fraud. She remembers his coat.
All of a sudden she sees
Spinelli's words of love in the right light. He is a liar and a fraud. She remembers his coat.
The minutes of the hearing arrive a few days later.
The minutes of the hearing arrive a few days later.
- but also the henchmen of the count are ready -
The verdict
"Stop! My husband is innocent!"
"Count Spinelli was with me that evening.
He forgot his coat.
Maybe he is the traitor!"
"My wife is rambling
- the coat is mine!"
"Examine the coat!"
Your last intelligence was very valuable. Enclosed find $10,000. Send all important information by carrier pigeon from X.
"If the coat is yours, you must be the recipient of this letter!"
She tries to move the rear-admiral to provide count Spinelli as a witness.
She tries to move the rear-admiral to provide count Spinelli as a witness.
...among the currently missing persons is count Spinelli.
"Dear God, please let me see my father one more time."
- The elephant - that is the letter from Spinelli! - And the X - it is the wings of the mill! - The solution must be found in the old mill!
- The elephant - that is the letter from Spinelli! - And the X - it is the wings of the mill! - The solution must be found in the old mill!
The old mill is at the center of the battle.
"I am Mrs. van Hauen.
You must help me prove the innocence of my husband!"
To clear my conscience before death, I hereby confess to having opened
Lieutenant van Hauen's sealed orders.
Count Spinelli
Safe -
Safe -
"Deliver this to Mrs. van Hauen personally."
The disastrous photograph
I rashly promised you a picture of myself, but you must not ask for more. I love my husband and my children.
THE END
The Mystery
Of The Leaping Fish
Home of the world's greatest scientific detective,
Coke Ennyday.
EATS - DRINKS
DOPE - SLEEP
The police chief often came to Coke Ennyday for help.
Coke Ennyday took no chances on admitting a visitor without consulting his scientific periscope.
Chief I. M. Keene
Short Beach
We are greatly mystified by the presence of a gentleman down here rolling in wealth, without any viable means of support.
Can you help us?
Endorsed find photo.
The gentleman rolling in wealth.
"Press me out a bundle of money."
DISGUISES
At Short Beach, the mysterious gentleman is joined by a female confederate.
The Leaping Fish.
Quietly Coke Ennyday stole out on the rail.
At the bath house where the man of mystery made. his weekly clean up.
"Give me that girl in marriage or I'll spill the beans!"
Inane, the little fish-blower of Short Beach.
Without a moment to lose
Coke Ennyday arrived at the scene of action.
Stuck in the mud.
LIFE SAVER
Exhausted by the mental strain.
"You have saved my life!"
"I am Coke Ennyday, the detective. See!"
"Is this you?"
"Yep, that's me!"
Even the fish worked against him.
"Tell the fish-blower she has got to marry Fishy Joe within the week."
"You must consent to marry
Fishy Joe within the week."
"Have no fear.
Coke Ennyday the scientific detective will protect you."
"Japs on the leaping fish!
Get the cans! At last a clue!"
"Smuggling!
The secret is mine!"
"Where is young chap that was here?"
"Coke Ennyday is on our trail!"
"Beat it to the laundry!
We'll meet you there."
"Opium!"
"Woman, we've got to make a quick get-away! "
Full of hop.
HELP
In Chinatown, the laundry where the gang does its dirty works.
"Girl, you are in my power."
POLICE PATROL
"At last we meet face to face."
"That means fight in my country."
"The best man walks out!"
The duel in the dark.
The police lost their way.
"Nobody home."
But not the end of this story...
"No, Douglas, you had better give up scenario writing and stick to acting."
