Behind The Screen was
Chaplin's seventh film for Mutual.
It descends from two of his
Keystone comedies. A Film Johnny and The Property Man, but at the same time burlesques the Mack Sennet school of knock- about which Chaplin had left exactly two years before this film was released on November 13, 1916.
BEHIND THE SCREEN
"Can I be an actress, please?"
"Goliath, the stage-hand.
David, his assistant."
"Prepare the scene!"
"Loafing again?"
Later. The scene dressed.
Finishing touches.
"Look! At it again!"
Stage-hands' lunch hour.
"How dare you wake us up?
We strike!"
"We've struck!
Are you with us?"
"Do you need a stage-hand, sir?"
"When I fire this gun -- you pull the traps!"
"Oh! Mercy!"
"Boy, sew this!"
The dramatic department.
The comedy department.
Rehearsing a new idea.
"I don't like this high-brow stuff!"
The strikers plan revenge.
GIANT POWDER
DYNAMITE
"Can you act?"
"He ducks and you get it!"
THE END
.:: ENGsub by Korf (UIN#104538656) ::.
I WOULDN'T LIKE TO BE A MAN
A COMEDY IN THREE ACTS by Ernst Lubitsch
Cast:
Direction:
Decoration and Set Design:
FIRST ACT
Is that proper for a young girl?
I was playir a bit o' poker.
When I was your age...!
Come on, that was a long time ago.
I really don't understand how a lady can smoke.
Now what's all this?
I'm slugging back my troubles.
Well, it looks like you've got a few nasty troubles of your own!
Would you allow us to serenade you?
We'd like something sweet too.
Where are you off to, then?!
Oh, if Petrus only knew about this...!
Dearest Councillor of Commerce,
The institution you have planned has now been founded.
It is essential that you come.
Behave yourself, so you make your governess very happy.
See, you're supposed to be happy with me.
And you want to be a refined young girl?
I don't want that at all!
I think the poor child's going to be pretty miserable.
What are you up to?
Dilly-dallying!
What would your uncle say about this?
Oh, I'm feeling pretty awful!
Your new guardian.
You're the guardian who's in for a rude awakening?
Stand up when you're addressing me!!
Now curtsy!
Lower!
Gracious Miss, your car is here.
Young girls your age belong in bed at this time!
I'll break you down yet!
Down to here!
What a petty man!
Why didn't I come into this world as a boy.
END OF THE FIRST ACT
SECOND ACT
I'd like an evening-suit.
Measurements...
By which gentleman do you wish to be served?
Perhaps the gentlemen will compromise.
Me... the left arm!
Me... the right arm!
And what'll be left over here for me then?
Ossi emancipates herself...
Good heavens does a man not have it easy.
And this here's not as simple as it looks.
The world's mine at any price!
A charming lad!
Such a cheeky boy - won't even stand up!!
Well no need to make such a fuss!
After all, you're a man!
That's what you say!
In the Mäuse-Palast
Rough folk - these men!
Take a look at this one!
Well, junior?
Ruthless people, these women!
Stupid fellow!
I'll seduce her away from him in no time.
Don't clobber me!
I swear I won't do it again.
That's women!
And you're here squabbling with me?
END OF THE SECOND ACT
"I Wouldn't Like to Be a Man!"
THIRD ACT
After the Ball's End
You keep puffing - inale already!
You're making such a wretched face!
I feel wretched, too!
Maybe not, then.
Well... how you doir now?
It's better not to ask!
To brotherhood!
What's your name, anyway?
It's better not to ask!
Today I'm noticir for the first time that the earth's spinning!
So where are we off to?
Go straight ahead.
Y'aren't quite on the wagon yerself.
Ossi's his name?
Oh, he's pissed all right!
He's in the bathtub?
I want to see my governess.
Come now, wipe away your tears.
I haven't got a handkerchief!
Well well, what brings you here?
I'm here to visit my cousin.
Don't tell the little one anything of our adventure.
Promise!
The lass is pretty cute, too!
I beg to differ.
Well, already out of the bathtub?
Out of which bathtub?
Well, out of the bathtub.
Naturally, one can't stay in there forever!
Being a man, - that's exhausting stuff!
Ossi has to get up:
I'll wake her right away.
No one wakes the way I wake!
I'm an old alarm clock!
That's right, the one and only!
And you let yourself be kissed by me?
Well - didn't you like how it tasted?
I'll break you down yet!
Down to here!
I wouldn't like to be a man!
THE UNDESIRABLE
A classical Hungarian peasant-play, written in 1880, in 4 acts
By Edward Tóth
Film by Michael Kertész
Original costumes and views of a Carpatian village in Hungary
Sarah represented by the famous tragical actress of the Hungarian National
Theatre Mary Jászai.
Betty, her dauther represented by Lilly Berki
Nick, represented by Michel Várkonyi of the Hungarian National Theatre.
Jim, a vagabond
First act.
Feeling his end, Gabriel, the old peasant tell his secret to Betty, grown up in his house.
"Dear child! ...I am not your father..."
"You are the dauther of my late brother Paul..."
My poor brother was an old man when he married a young wife...
He had an awful temper and a jealous character..."
"He made your mother suffer so much that she, in a desperate moment, killed him..."
"You came to my house a poor orphan without father and mother..."
"And where is my mother?"
"Your mother is in prison, or dead...
"God bless you Betty, be a good and honest girl always..."
Mr. Kontra, a true specimen of the hen-pecked husband, is an enthusiastic friend of gallant adventures...
!One evening only!
Splendid girls' orchestra in the Café" Merry Widow". Coctails!
Champagne! Wines! Excellent cuisine!
Dear angel. Why don't you take a maid again?...You never finish your work...
Sarah is finishing her
15th year in the prison...
Mrs. Paul Angyal born Sarah
Lehotinszky,having accomplished her 15 years of punishment, is to be released this day...
"Great God!...15 years..."
In the employment office.~
In the "Merry Widow"...
Mrs. Kontra has a son, Nick, from her first marriage, a good serious boy.
"Mother, you certainly caught a fine husband! You better hand me over my inheritance, before your husband spends it in the Café-Concert."
"What a sweet voice!..."
"You are the new maid?"
"Yes Sir."
"Where did you serve before?"
"Nowhere, Sir, until now..."
Mrs. Kontra getting angry...
"An umbrella? What for?!
It isn't raining!...
"They are coming, my dear parents, I should like to be present at the Peace-treaty..."
...and the little maid was wondering, why there is no peace on earth...
At the market.
Sarah is arraving in her native village...
The Sheriff appreciates the qualities of good wine...
"Hallo boy! Where is the Sheriff?"
"...I was just dreaming of a
2000 years old witch..."
End of the first act.~
Second act.
"I love you...I love you since the first moment I saw you."
"You guessed it...I love her and I shall marry her..."
"...Let me tell your fortune..."
"You will be very rich and happy..."
"Do leave me alone!"
"Oh! Those men! Old, young, they're all alike..."
But my dearest. I am absolutly innocent,.
She tried to flirt me..."
"No, no madam, no! It is a lie! I am a honest girl, even if I am your maid!"
"And now, my little lamb..."
"Let me have my papers..."Let me go far away from here, to a country with better men..."
"It isn't so easy...Wait a minute...
I shall call a policeman, who will conduct you to your native village..."
"Let me lock her up..."
"Madam wants to send me to my native town... I would rather die..."
Jim, the incorrigible vagabond is making his daily inspection.
"Am I not a lucky boy?..."
"Oh! Look here! Watches, chains, rings...
God sent me here surely..."
"What is that? The door is open?...
Everything broken open?..."
"Our father in Heaven, hallowed be thy name..."
Nick came back with Betty to defend her before his mother.
"You have been at home...
You ought to know what happened..."
"Only Betty could have done that..."
"I swear by God and by all that is dear to me, that I did not do it."
"Well, I'll go to jail, if you force me.
But you must prove that I have done it...
Good bye, Mr. Nick!
"If I could see my dear little girl, only once..."
End of the second act.~
Third act.
...and Betty, the poor, innocent girl, has been forcerly removed to her native town...
On the road.
Dear Mother!
I leave your house as I cannot live without Betty! I love her and if I cannot find her, I shall never return.
Forgive your Nick
"Please Sheriff, has Betty Angyal been brought here yet?..."
"Tell me, where could
I find the Sheriff?"
"I was ordered to bring from our town this undesirable girl.
She was born here. Her name is Betty
Angyal, occupation: servant-girl."
"I don't mind... Stay here then... but be good, otherwise you know your place..."
"Let me see your papers."
"I followed you, because I cannot live without you and cannot forget you..."
"Tell me as truly as if you would stand before the altar, that you did not see the jewels in our house..."
"Let me taste it...
My throat is so dry..."
"Could you sell me six boxes of sulphur-matches?...
"Perhaps these matches will deliver me from my unhappy life..."
"A bottle of wine here, old fellow!...
But of the best... I am rich, I am a gentleman..."
"Hallo! Old sorceress, drink!..."
"My angel, you could be my grandmother..."
"Look here! A new customer..."
"Please! Which is better, wine or brandy?
I don't feel well, give me some wine: it will help me..."
Happy men, who can sing so merrily.
End of the third act.
Fouth act.
Jim, feeling himself rich, wants to appear before Betty as a
"distinguished foreigner".
"Look here now, if you want to see a gentleman..."
"Good Gracious!... But all this is from the house of Mr. and Mrs. Kontra...
He must have all the rest too..."
"All right, dearest... I had the most serious intentions...
If you think to make a better match..."
The young girl wins the friendship of Sarah...
Sarah is telling her life, her happiness, her sorrowfull fate...
And Betty discovers her lost mother in the old woman and falls to her feet...
"What do you say?!...
Who are you?..."
"Mother, my dear, dear mother!..."
"Here, take some medicine..."
"Call, call quickly a hundred doctors!..."
"You drank of this bottle?...
Great God, it was poison..."
"No, No! I cannot die now, now that I have found her!
No, I shall struggle with my Fate,
I will be happy, happy again..."
"Be honest always... You know, what it means to be straight... honesty makes the poorest man happy..."
"Forgive my sins...
I feel... the end, death...
The name of the Lord be praised, now and in all eternity. Amen..."
"Arrest this man. He has done everything... he stole the jewels and the other things..."
"Here is the money and the jewels.
Now undo everything you have done against Betty."
Betty passed four weeks in the hospital...
"There is no danger anymore.
All she needs is rest."
"Don't be in such a hurry now!
I know the way to jail better than all of you put together!"
"My mother will know her duty."
The wedding.
Every cloud has a silver lining... after the storms come happy, sunny days...
The End
