Part Two of the fiIm on the Berlin Olympics
Festival Of Beauty
Produced by
Music by
Olympic sailing in Kiel
Twenty-five nations participate.
Starting with the
Olympic monotype class
Winner: Daniel Kagchelland,
Holland
The International Star class
Winner: Peter Bishof,
Germany
The six meter class
Winner: England
In the final round of the individual fencing
Kabos, Hungary, against Marzi, Italy.
Winner: Kabos,
Hungary
In the final of boxing, heavyweight class
Runge, Germany against Lovell, Argentina
Winner based on the total points,
Runge, Germany
Five kilometer out is the location of the modern pentathlon.
Pistol shooting, fencing, swimming and running are the other parts.
The Swedes have always won since 1912
First lieutenant Thofelt, the Olympic winner of 1928 is again participating.
Germany's hope is first lieutenant Handrick.
Starting is lieutenant Leonard, USA
First lieutenant Handrick,
Germany
Lavanga,
France
First lieutenant Abba,
Italy
First lieutenant Thofelt,
Sweden
Lieutenant Lemp,
Germany
The first riders are completing the distance.
Leonard, USA
Finish Line
Handrick, Germany
Abba, Italy.
Lemp, Germany.
Mollet, Belgium.
Modern Pentathlon
Placing — Competitor — Penalty
Standings after the 1st competition
Third exercise in the pentathlon: pistol shooting
Bouazzat, France
Legard, Great Britain
Thofelt, Sweden
Leban, Austria
Lemp, Germany
Mollet, Belgium
Catramby, Brazil
Kettunen, Finland
Handrick, Germany
Leonard, USA
Standings after the 3rd competition
The 4000-meter-cross-country race concludes the pentathlon.
Lemp, Germany
Tholfelt, Sweden
Abba, Italy
Leonard, USA
Handrick, Germany
At the finish: Lemp,
Germany
Von Orban, Hungary
Thofelt, Sweden
Abba, Italy
Leonhard, USA
Handrick, Germ any
Winner of the Modern Pentathlon: first lieutenant Handrick, Germany,
Second, lieutenant Leonard, USA
Third, first lieutenant Abba, Italy
In the Olympic Stadium
Hundred thousand people are waiting for the Decathlon
The test of the tests.
Till 1936 a German athlete,
Siebert had the world record, but this time he is injured and is not participating.
An unknown American now has the world record,
Glenn Morris from Colorado
Along with Morris the Americans have two other athletes,
Parker and Clark
The first event of the decathlon: the 100 meter run starting
Clark, USA, The German Bonnet and Reimer, Chile
Clark is in the middle, pulls in front
Clark first, will the runner from Chile follow?
The American is faster and faster
Clark wins in 10.9
In the next heat
Parker, America, Csanyi, Hungary and Chang, China
The American in the lead but not much...
The American has to fight
He pulls ahead
First: Parker, 11.4
Last heat
From inside to outside
Klein, Czechoslovakia
Morris, USA
Huber, Germany
Morris in the lead
Huber tries to catch up... no chance
Morris is too fast
Morris first in 11.1
After the first event, the 3 Americans are in the lead, the German is ninth long jump, the second event has just begun.
Jumping now, Parker, USA
7 meter 35
Huber, Germany
6 meter 89
Morris, USA
6 meter 97
And now Clark, the most dangerous rival for Morris
7 meter 62
Clark in the lead now with over 200 points
Third event, shot-put
Huber, Germany
12 meter 70
Clark, USA
12 meter 68
Glenn Morris, he must try to catch up
14 meter 10
In the high jump, the fourth event, the bar is set at 1 meter 85
Clark jumps
Parker
Morris
Morris made it, only 38 points behind the first
Now the 400 meter race, the most strenuous event
Sterzl, Austria in front, Huber, Germany
Klein, Czechoslovakia,
Morris, next on the inside lane
Morris inches up, challenging the held coming up, rushing ahead
Now, Morris is leaving them standing
Always faster, fighting against time
At 300 meters he still has to run 100 meters... he gives it his all
Time: 49.4
Two points difference between Clark and Morris
Standing, after 5 events
Sixth event, 110 meter hurdles
At the start:
Parker, USA, Csanyi, Hungary
And Guehl, Switzerland
Parker finishes first, 15 seconds
Starting Boulanger, Belgium,
Clark, USA and Bonnet, Germany
First Clark
Time 15.70,
7/10 seconds more than Parker
Starting Huber, Germany
Klein, Czechoslovakia and Morris, USA
Morris ran a fantastic time,
14.9 seconds.
Now he's in first place before Clark
Event seven, discus throw
Parker
39 meter 11
Clark
39 meter 39
Morris
43 meter 02
Pole vault
Parker
Morris the bar is set at 3 meter 60
Clark, 3 meter 70
Now Huber from Germany,
3 meter 80
A marvelous jump!
He's again amongst the best now
Javelin throw, ninth event.
Parker
56 meter 46
Clark
51 meter 12
Huber, Germany
56 meter 45
Morris
54 meter 52
Standing, after 9 events
Last event 1500 meter run
For the last time, the athletes have to fight with all their might.
Huber challenges Morris for the lead
Morris responds even overtaking
Klein, Czechoslovakia once again, for the last time, he is running agaist the clock
He has prepared for the decathlon for four years
He hangs on, he wants to beat his own word's record he wants to be the best of athletes he wants to be the best ofthe world,
Morris breaks the tape for the Iast time
First, second and third are Americans.
Fourth, Huber Deutschland the best of Europe in the decathlon.
Hockey, final
Germany against India
The Indians in white shorts attack shot... missed shot... goal shot... goal
Final of the Olympic soccer.
Austria against Italy
Austria kicks off.
The ball goes to the left, is halted by the Italians.
They attack. shot... goal
1-0, Italy
Nobody in the Italian goal shot, goal
There goes the ball... high...
The ball almost out, shot and goal...
Italy is the winner of
Olympic soccer
100 kilometer road cycling
29 nations are taking part
100 cyclists are preparing for the start
For the first time at the Olympic games there will be no individual time race, it will be team race.
The French team is the favorite
Last week, they won the gold medal at the pursuit.
First two rounds on the AVUS, then to the North, passing the Olympic Village, then to the West, and then back, the last ten kilometers on the AVUS.
The last kilometer on the AVUS, the cyclists take their position for the sprint...
A Dutch cyclist attacks... and takes the lead
The Germans are coming forward.
The Danish try to catch up but there is the long sprint of the French...
The French are leading...
Charpentier. ..
Lapébie
Dorgebray. .. the last 300 meters...
At the finish...
Charpentier, Lapébie, Nievergelt
Hundred thousand people honor the winners of the
100 kilometer road cycling.
Two gold medals for France.
Gold for the French team, silver for Switzerland and bronze for Belgium.
The individual victory is for
Charpentier, France, second is the French Lapebie and third Nievergelt, Switzerland.
The military, very hard for riders and horses
Lieutenant Grandjean,
Denmark
Captain Nishi, Japan winner in Los Angeles of the show jumping
First lieutenant
Baron von Wangenheim, Germany
Major Sjemow, Bulgaria
Captain Lieutenant Lunding,
Denmark
Lieutenant Campello,
Italy
Captain Kawecki,
Poland
Captain Androedy,
Hungary
Wangenheim, Germany
And now a very hard jump, the trench. Iantia from Italy
Greandjean, Denmark
First Lieutenant Tonnet,
Holland
The third refusal, eliminated
Kawecki, Poland
Thomson, USA
The Turkish rider Erokay
And now the first German,
Cavalry Lippert
The second German, captain
Stubbendorff
Baron von Wangenheim
Major Sjemow,
Bulgaria
Lieutenant Grandjean,
Denmark
Lieutenant Campello,
Italy
Captain Prochazka,
Czechoslovakia
Lieutenant de Ia Moussai,
France
Lieutenant Margot,
France
Captain Saejbo,
Norway
Captain Kawecki,
Poland
Captain Fanshaw,
Great Britain
First Lieutenant De Mortanges,
Holland, who already won the Olympics twice
Captain Ferruzzi,
Italy
Captain Inanami,
Japan
Captain Thomson,
USA
Cavalry Lippert,
Germany
Captain Stubbendorff,
Germany
First Lieutenant
Baron von Wangenheim, Germany
And here is the finish
Only half of the participating riders made it to the finish.
Wangenheim broke his clavicle but that didn't stop him, thanks to this,
Germany is the first.
In the individual ranking, the winner is
Captain Stubbendorf, Germany
Second,
Captain Thomson, USA
Third,
Captain Lunding, Denmark
Rowing, fours without coxswain
Italy, Austria, Germany,
Switzerland, England and Denmark
The Germans are leading, leaving the Swiss behind them.
But the English attack.
The Germans still leading...
The English have never been beaten at the Olympics... also now they want to win... but...
Germany wins...
It's the fifth time that
Germany wins today.
Five gold medals for Germany! eight-oared shells, final
Switzerland, Hungary,
England, USA,
Italy and Germany.
It's the first time that Germany gets to the final of the eight-oared shells in the Olympic games
Italy is leading
Germany attacks and are almost in the lead
The Vikings take the lead.
The final fight starts. The Iast 100 meters... the German boat is first... followed by the Italians, the
Hungarians and the English... but at the extreme right America takes the lead. Germany catching up, meter by meter, but it's too late... too late... America wins.
First, America.
Second, Italy, third Germany.
The platform diving
Germany, America and Japan in the final
Now Olga Jentsch-Jordan,
Germany
Dorothy Poynton-Hill,
America
The second German girl
Gerda Daumelang
Katherine Rawls
America
Poynton-Hill
The 16 year old Majorie Gestring,
America
Daumelang
Osawa, Japan
Poynton-Hill
The Japanese girl again
Majorie Gestring
Winner,
Majorie Gestring, America
Second Katherine Rawls,
America
Third Poynton-Hill,
America
200 meter breast stroke, men.
The American master, Higgins in the lead, before the German, Balke. Between them: Sietas from Germany.
The Japanese swimmers are
Koike, Hamuro and Ito.
Hamuro is in the middle, he's leading and is the first to turn.
Now Hamuro is leading, just before
Koike. In the second row, the German Sietas is catching up, passes Higgins,
Hamuro still in the lead, but Sietas fights with all his strength.
The struggle between Germany and Japan has started...
Higgins. ..
Yldefonzo. ..
Koike...
Ito... the final fight... the clocks are being compared...
Hamuro has won with a time of two minutes 42 and a half seconds.
This is a new Olympic record.
The German Sietas is second,
Koike, Japan is third.
100 meter free style, men, final
The Europeans and the Americans are fighting against a Japanese front.
Three men from Japan: Arai,
Yusa and Taguchi in a battle against two Americans and two Europeans.
Three of the swimmers are now ahead of the others; the Hungarian Ferenc Csik, in the middle the American Peter Fick, holder of the world record and the Japanese, Yusa.
Fischer from Germany is little behind now... in the middle the American is catching up... but Yusa Japan and Csik Hungary are still in the lead.
The Hungarian is still fighting,
Csik starts to swim faster for these last meters... with his arm... he pushes on the clock, before Yusa and Arai.
100 meter free style, women, final
At the outer track, the German
Gisela Arendt is leading... next to her the Argentinean Campbell in track 5 Rie Mastenbroek and next to her Willy den Ouden.
The four fastest swimmers of the world fighting against each other.
The German Gisela Arendt is leading,
Lacy tries to catch up, Arendt returns as the first one, before Campbell, den Ouden and Mastenbroek.
In the front it's a fight between the
German girl and the Argentinean, the Argentinian swims faster and faster,
Gisela Arendt gives all that she can,
In track 4 den Ouden, holder of the world record, tries to catch up just like the Dutch
Rie Mastenbroek in track 5.
Campbell and Willy den Ouden are leading but Rie Mastenbroek catches up, in track 5, she comes to the front, now she is before den Ouden and
Campbell and she's the first to push on the clock, before Campbell and Gisela Arendt.
SALT FOR SVANETIA
Based upon an articIe by
S. Tretlakov
Director & Chief Cameraman
Mikhail Kalatozov
Co-Cinematographer
Sh. Geglashvili
"The Soviet Union is a country so big and diverse..
...that every kind of social and economic way of life...
...is to be found within it"
Lenin
Even now there are far reaches of the Soviet Union where...
..the patriarchal way of life persists...
...along with remnants of the clan system.
Map of the Caucasian Mountains, showing the Ingur River and the locations of various tribes.
The Ushkul Tribe
Upper Svanetia, cut off from civilization by mountains and glaciers.
Here converge two mountain ranges of the Caucasus.
Tvelhuld.
The clouds come from the sea and turn into shining, pure ice.
Through the slow-moving ice currents, the cold creeps down.
From the mist and ice are born the rivers.
One such river is the Ingur.
At its upper reaches lies...
Ushkul
Further down, where the currents are slower and the climate milder, lived the local barons.
Sole owners of this land's riches
- until the October revolution.
The passage into the upper, free Svanetia is not easy.
Eight months of snow lie at its gates.
Behind the snowy pass stand the towers of Ushkul...
Strong towers of stone.
They are here for a reason.
Not too long ago they guarded this starving land....
...from the looting barons.
The barons hated the towers.
Friend or foe?
Have they come to collect more taxes from the starving villagers?
The towers are made ready.
The ancient pulleys creak under the pressure.
The tower is ready for battle.
In this way, they fought...
...and protected their freedom from the barons of the valley...
The great, all-enduring towers.
Cut off from the outside world, the Ushkul tribe can satisfy...
...only the most basic needs of its members.
Livestock - the lifeblood of Ushkul.
There are pastures, but very little milk, as salt is lacking.
The rich breed oxen for sacrifices.
The poor have neither livestock nor bread.
Down into the valley, looking for work.
Ushkul is a subsistence farming community.
From lamb wool...
...yarn is made.
Further down rumble the factories.
Here, people weave with the help of machines...
...make their own clothing and...
...get their haircuts according to their own fashions.
From the wet wool they make...
...weave ropes...
...and connect villagers with bridges.
For the towers.
...for the roofs...
Without wheels.
They sleep on stone beds.
Stone is everywhere, even in death.
By the glaciers...
...lie the barley fields.
Only the barley can grow at the elevation of 1,800 meters.
JuIy 28th, 1 929.
The day was hot.
Approaching...
...suddenIy...
Winter!
Summer betrayed the villagers.
The July snow covered all...
In snow and in sweat.
Save what you can.
The village is short-handed.
The strongest men have left to look for work.
The storm has passed...
...and it's summer again.
Those flint boards are used as thrashers.
Another way to use stone.
Another day of hard work.
Save the barley!
Harsh, bone-breaking labour.
Around and around...
Look out!
Save the manure for fertilizer!
Nature is harsh - the work is exhausting.
The work is exhausting - the way of life never changes.
Cut off from civilization,
Ushkul needs salt.
Here, salt isn't a common commodity...
...it's like gold.
There's salt in sweat.
No salt...
SALT!
S-A-A-LT!
There's salt in urine.
Cut off from civilization,
Ushkul is starving for salt.
The mountains that are white as salt stop the salt shipments from the valley.
There are no roads.
Driven by hunger from their own land...
...the poor people of Svanetia...
...the farmers and field workers...
...the workers from tangerine orchards...
...carry the salt back to their own land.
The salt of the earth.
From the factories, collective farms, highways.
The peopIe of Ushkul are waiting.
Waiting for their arrival.
Waiting with new hope.
Bleeding from exhaustion.
Waiting...
...anxiously.
Waiting for news...
In the stone walls of this savage land, religion still rules.
White smoke of mourning.
The funeral of a rich man is a ceremonial celebration.
The funeral of a poor man is only grief.
A birth during a funeral is considered unclean.
The mother is exiled.
Friends and relatives: make donations in memory of the deceased!
Alone...an outcast.
Friends, pay homage: throw yourself into the grave!
For you, O Lord!
This stallion is yours.
Let the blood of this ox spill on the grave.
The horse is to be driven to death.
Bless the Lord who created the mountains of Svanetia.
Another Svan is born.
Water!!!
WATER!!!
In the name of the
God of Svanetia...
...the Goddess of the valley...
...Saint IIIina...
...the horse's heart is about to burst.
The blood of Svanetia.
There's salt in blood.
Religion is feeding off Svanetia.
The sun rises...
...and sets...
...over the dead child.
Pregnancy is a curse in Ushkul.
And all because there are no roads.
We don't want to bear chiIdren!
Don't want to feed the soil with our milk!
Hear this, Svanetia!
Watch this, audience!
For the Svans --
- for communists -
-- there are no obstacIes.
Our economic plan...
...is stronger than religion and old customs.
They bring to Svanetia not a handful of salt...
They do not make a narrow path in the snow.
Thousands of Svans...
...come through...
...into the
SOVIET SVANETIA!
BuiIding roads.
Of the 107 kilometers that Svanetia needs...
By the third year of the five year plan...
50 kilometers have been completed.
THE END
Music by Zoran Borisavljevic
Translation by Alexander Litvak
Subtitles by MENiSCUS
The Document of the Reich Party Day 1 934
Commissioned by order of the Führer
Directed by Leni Riefenstahl
On the 5th of September 1 934...
20 years after the outbreak of the World War...
1 6 years after the beginning of Germany's suffering...
1 9 months after the beginning of the German Rebirth...
Adolf Hitler flew again to Nuremberg to review his faithful followers.
The ''old city'' ofNuremberg
Motorcade from the airport to the HotelDeutscherHof
A bouquet forthe Führer
Arrivalat the HotelDeutscherHof
Leibstandarte-SSAdolfHitler
Bandserenade andnightrally in front ofHitler'shotel
Hitler Youth andGerman Youth encampment outside the cityofNuremberg
Marchpast offarmers in traditionalcostume and presentation ofthe harvest to Hitler
HitlerandDr. Robert Ley, Reichsleiter andHeadofThe German LaborFront
(DAF- DeutscheArbeitsfront)... reviewranks ofLaborFrontmen
RudolfHess, Deputy Führer
ViktorLutz, SA Obergruppenführer andChiefofStaffofthe Storm Troopers
(SA - Sturmabteilungen)... succeeding Ernst Röhm
Dr.JosefGoebbels, Reich Minister ofPeople EnlightenmentandPropaganda andGauleiterofBerlin
Baldur Von Schirach,
Reichsjudendführer
Congress Hallofthe NSDAP
(NationalSocialist
German Workers Party)
RudolfHess, Deputy Führer
I open the Congress of the Sixth Party Day... in respectful public memory of...
General Field Marshal and Reich President Von Hindenburg... who has passed into Eternity.
The General Field Marshal is remembered as the first soldier of the Great War.
And thoughts as well to our fallen comrades.
I greet the high representatives of foreign states... who by their presence are participating in this day for their political parties.
In sincere friendship the greeting of the Movement is extended... especially to the representatives of the Armed Forces here, now under the orders of the Führer!
My Leader:
Around you stand the flags and standards of this National Socialism.
Only when they are threadbare... will the people be able to understand... by hindsight, the greatness of our time... because ofwhat you, my Leader, mean to Germany!
You are Germany!
When you act, the Nation acts.
When you judge, the People judge.
Our thanks is the vow to stand with you... in good days and bad... come whatmay.!
Reich MinisterDr. PaulJosefGoebbels
Thanks to your leadership, Germany will be attainable as the homeland.
Homeland for all Germans in the world.
To us you were the guarantor ofvictory.
To us you are the guarantor of peace!
Adolf Hitler: Hail Victory.!
Hail Victory.!Hail Victory.!
>From the proclamation of the Führer read by Wagner
Adolf Wagner, GauleiterofMunich-Upper
BavariaAdolfBavarian InteriorMinister
&SA-Obergruppenführer
No revolution that seems to be permanent... can lead to anything other than complete anarchy.
So the World will not live at war.
So also the people do not live on revolution.
Nothing on this earth that has lasted for thousands ofyears... was assembled in mere decades.
The largest tree also has the longest period of growth.
What braves the centuries... will also be strong through the centuries.
AlfredRosenberg, Reichsleiter andlaterReich Minister forannexedEastern Territories
It is our unshakeable belief in ourselves... that is our hope for the youth... to carry on the work which has been put before them in the stormyyears... of the revolt of 1 91 8 in Munich... and which is already part of the entire German nation's history.
Dr. Otto Dietrich, Reichsleiter andReich Press Chiefin Ministry ofPeople EnlightenmentandPropaganda
Truth is the foundation... on which the power of the press stands in the world.
And that it reports the truth about Germany... is the only demand that we place on the foreign press.
DrFritz Todt, Reich GeneralInspector ofHighwaysandConstruction andMinisterofArmamentsandMunitions
As I speak, work on the Reich Autobahn has begun at 51 locations.
Although this work is in its early stage... today there are already
52,000 men on thejob... and another 1 00,000... engaged in the work of allied industries.
Fritz Reinhardt, State Secretary in the Reich MinistryofFinance andSA Obergruppenführer
Wherever we look, all around there is building... and new creations... and activity and life... which will continue into the future.
Richard-WaltherDarré,
ReichAgriculturalLeader, Headof
Central Office ofRace andResettlement
Maintaining the health of our farmers is the primary foundation... for the prosperity of industry... for German business and for foreign exports.
JuliusStreicher,
GauleiterofUpperFranconia andEditorof ''Der Stürmer''
A people that does not protect the purity of its race, goes to seed!
Dr. Robert Ley, Reichsleiter andHeadofthe German LaborFront
All our work must be dictated by a single thought-- that the German worker... be made an upright, proud and equally entitled national comrade.
Dr. Hans Frank,
Reichs MinisterofJustice andlater
GovernorGeneralofoccupiedPoland
As the Leader of the German legal service...
I can say that, clearly, the basis of the National Socialist State... is the Nationalist Socialist Law Code.
And forus ourhighestleader isalso the highestjudge.!
We know how sacred the principles of these laws are to our Führer.
These Reich laws can assure you,
National Comrades... that your life and existence is safe in this National Socialist State of Order, Freedom and Law.
Dr.JosefGoebbels, Reich Minister ofPeople EnlightenmentandPropaganda,
GauleiterofBerlin... andlater
GeneralPlenipotentiaryfor Total War
May the bright flame of our enthusiasm never be extinguished.
It alone gives light and warmth... to the creative art of modern political propaganda.
This comes from the depths of the People... and from these depths of the people... it must always again find its roots and its strength.
It may be good to possess power based on strength... but it is better to win and hold the heart of a People.
Konstantin Hierl, Reichsarbeitsführer,
Headofthe German LaborService
Today, the German people are spiritually and soulfully ready... to undertake their obligation in the general Labor Service.
We have the Führer's orders!
Reich LaborService Review before Hitler
Reich LaborService Review before Hitler
My Leader:
I wish to present 52,000 RAD men foryour inspection.
Hail, Men of the Labor Service!
Hail my Führer!
Shoulder spades!
Spades at ease!
Here we stand.
We are ready... to carry Germany into a new era.
Germany.!
Comrade, where do you come from?
>From Friesenland
And you, Comrade?
>From Bavaria
And you?
>From Kaiserstuhl
And you?
>From Pomerania
And from Königsberg
>From Silesia
>From the seacoast
>From the Black Forest
>From Dresden
>From the Danube
>From the Rhine
And from the Saar
One People!
One Leader!
One Reich!
Germany.!
Today we work together... in the swamp.
We work in the swamp.
And in the sand.
We dam the North Sea.
We plant trees.
We build roads... from town to town, and city to city.
We provide the farmer with new soil... forests and fields, land and bread... forGermany.
We didn't stand in the trenches.
Nor were we under the shell fire of grenades... and still we are soldiers.
Sharpen the hammers... axes, pickaxes andspades.!
We are the Reich 'syoungmanhood.!
As once at Langemarck... at Tannenberg... before Lüttich (Liege)... before Verdun... on the Somme... on the Ähne... in Flanders... in the West... in the East... in the South... on land, on water, and in the clouds.
Comrades, who were shot by the Red Front and Reactionaries...
You are not dead.!
You live in Germany.!
My Labor Service Men.
For the first time you are presented for review in this forum... before me and before the German people.
You represent a great idea... and we know that for millions of our national comrades... physical labor will not longer be a divisive concept.
But it will instead bind us together and, furthermore... no longer will it be the case in Germany... that physical labor will be seen as anything less... than any other work.
The whole nation passes through your school.
The time will come when no German... can be admitted into the community of the people... until he has first become a member ofyour group.
And you know that today you are not only being seen... by the thousands in Nuremberg, but by all of Germany... which also sees you here for the first time today.
And I know thatjust as you serve this Germany proudly... all of Germany today will see its sons marching in you with proud joy!
ViktorLutze, S.A. ChiefofStaff atSA Night Rally
Hail Victory!
Hail Victory! Hail Victory!
Comrades.
Many ofyou here tonight knew me... as an SA man... marching in the rank and file... in the first years of the Movement.
And Party Comrades, just as I was an SA man then... so I am still an SA man today!
We SA workers will always be true only to the Führer... and fight for the Führer.
Hitler Youth andGerman Youth Rally at the German Stadium
HitlerandBaldur von Schirach,
Reich Youth Leader
Reich MinisterDr. PaulJosefGoebbels
Martin Bormann, Secretary to the Führer andHeadofthe Party Chancellory...
SS-AdjutantSchaub, Hitler,
SA-Adjutant Brückner
Hitler andDeputy FührerRudolfHess
Hitlerjugend Marsch
(The Hitler Youth March -
AdolfHitlerto Thee)
Baldur Von Schirach, Reichjugendführer
My Leader!
My Comrades!
We live again for this hour which makes us proud and happy.
According to your command, my Leader, a youth stands here... a youth that knows neither class nor caste.
The young generation of our people follows afteryou.
Just as you demonstrate the highest self-sacrifice in this Nation... so does this youth wish to be selfless.
Because you embody the concept of fidelity for us... therefore we wish to be faithful.
Adolf Hitler, the Leader of German Youth, attention!
My German youth.
After one year
I can greet you again here.
You standing here today represent something... that is happening all over Germany.
And we want that you,
German boys and girls... will absorb everything that we wish for Germany.
We want to be one people... and through you, to become this people.
We want a society with neither castes nor ranks.
And you must not allow these ideas to grow within you.
We want to see one Reich.!
And you must educate yourselves for this.
We want this people to be obedient... and you must practice obedience in yourselves.
We want this people to be peace-loving... but at the same time to be courageous.
And you must, for that reason, be both peace-loving...
You must be both peace-loving and strong.
We want this people not to become soft... but to become hard and, therefore... you must steel yourselves for this in youryouth.
You must learn sacrifice... and also never to collapse.
Whatever we create today... whatever we do... will all pass away... but in you Germany will live on.
And when we can no longer hold... the flag that we tore from nothing... you must hold it firmly in your fists!
And I know that it cannot be any other way... as we bind ourselves together.
Foryou are flesh ofourflesh andbloodfrom ourblood.!
The same spirit that governs us... burns in youryoung minds.
And when the great columns of the movement... sweep through Germany today... then I know that you will close ranks... and we know that Germany lies in front ofus...
Germanymarches within us... andGermany followsbehindus.!
Air Marshal (later Reichsmarschall)
Hermann Wilhelm Goering, Hitler... andMinisterofWar
General Werner Von Blomberg, reviewunits ofthe Reichswehr
Ride byofthe 18th CavalryRegiment andmodern armoredcars andgun caissons ofthe Reichswehr
Night RallyofPoliticalLeaders
ArchitectAlbertSpeer's
''Sea ofFlags''... and ''CathedralofLights'' on Zeppelin Field.
Ayear ago... we met for the first time on this field; the first general review of political leaders... of the National Socialist Party.
200,000 men have assembled here.
They are not here at the summons of their hearts alone... but also at the summons of their loyalty.
It was the great calamity of our people that drove us to the struggle... brought us together... and left us greater.
Those who do not understand... have not experienced the same calamities among their people.
These things appear enigmatic and mysterious... that hundreds of thousands would be led to assemble... amidst calamity and passion.
Others cannot understand... that this is not an order of the State.!
Theyare deceiving themselves.!
The State doesnot orderus.!
We orderthe State.!
The State didnot create us.!
Rather we createdourown State.!
No, the movement lives... and it is grounded hard and fast.
And as long as one of us can draw a breath... he will give his strengths to the movement... just as it was in yesteryear.
Then drum will join drum... flag will join flag... group will join group,
Gau to Gau... and after that, this earlier divided people... will follow these sacred columns of the Nation.
It would be an outrage ifwe were to lose... what we have fought for... with so much labor, so much worry... so much sacrifice, and so many privations.
One cannot live faithfully and give up... what has given meaning and purpose to one's entire life.
That would not be so... if it were not a cardinal command.
And no earthly power gave us that command.
Forthe God, ourGod, who created ourpeople, gave us that command.!
So it is our vow this evening... that each hour, on everyday... to think onlyofGermany ofthe People andReich... andofourGerman nation.!
To the Germanpeople.!
Hail Victory.!Hail Victory.!
ReviewofSA andSSandCommemoration ofthe recent death onAugust2, 1934... ofReichspräsidentandGeneral
Feldmarshall Paul von Hindenburg
Heinrich Himmler, Reichsführer-SS andChiefofthe German Police, Hitler, and ViktorLutze, Stabchef-SA
SA, NSKK, andSS Party formations offeran oath offealty toAdolfHitler
ViktorLutze, Storm Troopers (SA)
ChiefofStaff
My Führer (My Leader):
Just as we have always done our duty to you in the past... so too in the future, we await your orders alone.
And we, Comrades, know only to obey... the orders of our Führer... and to prove that we have remained true to the Führer.
Our Führer, Adolf Hitler:
Hail Victory.!Hail Victory.!
SA and SS men:
A few months ago... a dark shadow cast itself across our Movement.
The SA and other institutions of the Party... had nothing whatsoever to do with this shadow.
They who would believe that a rift has opened in the unity of the Movement... deceive themselves.
Itstands fastas thisblockhere... and nothing in Germany will break it.
And when anyone does harm to the spirit of my SA... then the SA will not be harmed... but those who do this harm... will injure only themselves!
And only a fool or a known liar... could think... that I would ever disband an organization... that took us so manyyears to build.
My Comrades... we stand fast together for our Germany... and we must stand fast together for this Germany.
And I hand to each ofyou the new insignia... placing them with confidence... in the hands that I see as the most trustworthy there are in Germany.
For in the past you have proven your loyalty to me a thousand times.
In the time to come, it cannot and willnot be any different.
And so I greet you as myold, faithfulSA andSSmen.!
Hail Victory.!Hail.!
Hail.!Hail.!
Honorgun salute ofthe army to the Partystandards
Hitlerpresentsnewcolors to the assembledParty formations... touching each newflag to the Blutfahne, the ''BloodBanner''... carriedby SS-Standartenführer
Jakob Grimminger... thesame man who carriedthis flag during the abortive Munichputsch of1923
Hitler's grandreview ofallparamilitaryformations ofthe NSDAP... inAdolfHitlerPlatz in front ofthe Frauenkirche
Marchpast ofSA HonorGuardunits ledby ViktorLutze
Salute ofJuliusStreicher,
GauleiterofNuremberg-UpperFranconia
Parade ofthe ''Storm Flags''
GrandAdmiralEric Raeder
Hermann Göringin SA uniform
SA Stabchef(SA-ChiefofStaff)
ViktorLutze
Hermann Göringand...
RudolfHess take thesalute
MaxAmann, Reichsleiter in charge ofthe NSDAPpress
WalterBuch, Reichsleiter andChiefJudge ofthe NSDAP Court
ViktorLutze, SA ChiefofStaff
Dr. Robert Ley, Reichsleiter andHeadofthe German LaborFront
GauleiterofMunich andUpperBavaria andSA-Obergruppenführer Adolf Wagner
Alpine units ofthe SA Storm Troopers
GeneralFranzXavier Ritter von Epp,
NSDAPReichsleiterand
Reichsstatthalter (Governor) ofBavaria
ReichAirDefense League marchpast
OldGuardSA Feldherrnhalle Regiment marchpast
NSKK (NationalSocialist
Transportation Corps) marchpast
Gau StandardBearersmarchpast
AdolfHitlerPlatz in the old citycenter
Reichsarbeitsdienst-RAD
(Reich LaborService) marchpast
Seniorarmy, police andpolitical officers, including Lieutenant General
(laterGeneralField Marshall)...
Gerd von Rundstedt, salute the Reich LaborService men in theirmarchpast the Führer
Konstantin Hierl, Reichsleiter and Reichsarbeitsführer
Reich MinisterDr. Goebbels
Bandofthe SS (Schutzstaffel)
Elite Guard
Obergruppenführer-SSJulius Schaub,
Hitler'spersonalSS-Adjutant
Heinrich Himmler, Reichsführer-SS, leads the marchpast ofthe SS
Obergruppenführer-SS Sepp Dietrich,
CommanderofHitler's personalbodyguard... the Leibstandarte-SSAdolfHitler
Reichsführer-SSHeimlich Himmler salutes the Führer
WillyLiebel, Lord Mayor
(Oberburgermeister) ofNuremberg
HimmlerandHitlertake thesalute ofthe Leibstandarte-SSAdolfHitler, the Führer'spersonalbodyguardregiment
FranzXavierSchwarz, Reichsleiter,
National Treasurerofthe NSDAP, andSS-Oberst-Gruppenführer
Hitler Youth boyandfamily watch theparade from an upperstory
Crowdanticipates the marchpast ofHitler'spersonalbodyguardregiment, the Leibstandarte-SSAdolfHitler
Bandofthe Leibstandarte-SS
AdolfHitler
Marchpast ofthe Leibstandarte-SS
AdolfHitlerto Hitler's favorite march, the BadenweilerMarsch
Colorguardofthe Leibstandarte-SS
AdolfHitler, carrying the Führer's personalstandard
Army ChiefofStaff
General Werner von Blomberg... givesmilitarysalute to the Leibstandarte-SSAdolfHitlerunits
Theparadestep ofthe ''Black Guards, '' the Leibstandarte-SSAdolfHitler
Closing Ceremonies of the Parteitag (PartyDay) weekofevents in the Nuremberg Congress Hall
SS-StandartenführerJakob Grimminger, carries the Blutfahne (BloodFlag)... into the Congress Hall forthe closing ceremonies
Deputy FührerRudolfHess at the Podium
The Führer speaks:
The Sixth Party Day of the Movement has come to and end.
What appeared like a show of political strength... for millions of Germans outside of our ranks.
For hundreds of thousands of fighters... it was ultimately more.
The great personal and spiritual meeting... of the old fighters and comrades in struggle.
And, perhaps, a cross section ofyou... despite the forced civility of this review of our Party... will return with courageous hearts to the days in which it was difficult to be a National Socialist.
When our Party consisted of only seven members... it already had two principles.
First, it would be a Party with a true ideology.
And second, it would be, uncompromisingly... the one andonlypowerin Germany.
We had to remain in the minority, because we mobilized... the most valuable elements of struggle and sacrifice in the Nation... which have always been not in the majority, but rather in the minority.
And because these are the racially best of the German nation... they can in the proudest self-esteem... claim the leadership of the Reich and the people.
The German people... and subordinated itself to this leadership in ever-growing numbers!
The German people is happy... in the knowledge that a constantly changing vision... has been replaced by a fixedpole.!
Whoever feels that he is the carrier of the best blood... and knowingly uses it to attain the leadership... will never relinquish it!
Ludwig Müller, Reichsbischof
(Reich Bishop ofthe United
German Evangelist Church)
There is always a part of the people who stand out as really active fighters... and more is expected from them than from the millions of national comrades in the general population.
For them it is not simply enough to make the pledge: ''Ibelieve.!''
Rather, the affirmation: ''Ifight.!''
For all time to come the Party will be the source of political leadership for the German people.
It will in its teaching... and was ultimately in its organization hard as steel... malleable in its tactics and adaptable in its entirety; yet it will be a training school like a holyorder for political leaders.
It must be shown, however, that all upstanding Germans become NationalistSocialists.
Only the best NationalistSocialists, however, are Party Comrades.!
Once, our enemies worried us and persecuted us and, from time to time... removed the lesser elements from the Movement for us.
Today we must examine ourselves and remove from our midst the elements that have become bad.
Andtherefore, do notbelong with us.!
It is our wish and will... that this State and this Reich last for thousand years.
We can be happy to know that this future belongs entirely to us.!
When the olderonesamong us falter... theyouth willstiffen andremain until theirbodies decay.
Only then, ifwe in the Party with our most obedient dedication... become the highest embodiment of
National Socialist thought and being... then the Party will materialize... into an eternalandindestructible pillar of the German people and Reich.
Then our glorious and laudable Army... the old, proud, standard bearers of our people... who are equally tradition minded... will champion the Political Leadership and the Party.
And then these two institutions will equally educate the German man... and, therefore, strengthen and carry on their shoulders... the German State, the German Reich.!
At this hour, tens of thousands of our Party Comrades are already leaving the City.
While many of them relive the meeting in their memories... still others are already planning the next review.
And again the people come and go and they will be engrossed anew and happy... and inspired, for the idea and the Movement live on in our people... and with the Movement are symbol of eternity!
Longlive the NationalSocialist Movement.!
Longlive Germany.!
Deputy FührerRudolfHess at the Podium
The Party is Hitler.!
But Hitleris Germany, as Germany is Hitler.!
Hitler: Hail Victory!
Hail Victory!
''The Horst WesselSong'' the NSDAP hymn and unofficial
German National Anthem after DeutschlandÜberAlles.
Raise the banner
The columnsare closedtightly
The SA marches with apeacefulstrongstep
Comrades shotby the RedFront andthe Reactionaries
March in spirit together in ourcolumns
Comrades shotby the RedFront andthe Reactionaries march in spirit together in ourcolumns
This Spanish earth is dry and hard.
And the faces of the men who work that earth are hard and dry from the sun.
This worthless land with water will yield much.
For fifty years we wanted to irrigate but they held us back.
Now we will bring water to it to raise food for the defenders of Madrid.
The village of Fuentedueña, where fifteen hundred people live and work the land for the common good.
It is good bread stamped with the Union label.
But there is only enough for the village.
Irrigating the waste land of the village can give ten times as much grain for bread, as well as potatoes, wine and onions for Madrid.
The village is on the Tajo river and the main highroad that is the life line between Valencia and Madrid.
All food for Madrid comes on this road.
To win the war the rebel troops must cut this road.
They plan the irrigation of the dry fields.
They go to trace the ditch.
This is the true face of men going into action.
It is a little different from any other face that you will ever see.
Men cannot act before the camera in the presence of death.
The villagers in Fuentedueña hear this noise and say...
"our guns".
The frontline curves north to Madrid.
These were the doors of houses that are empty now.
Those who survived the bombardment bring them to reinforce the new trenches.
When you are fighting to defend your country, war, as it lasts, becomes an almost-normal life.
You eat, and drink, and sleep, and read the papers.
The loudspeaker of the People's Army.
It has a range of two kilometers.
When these men started for the lines three months ago, many of them held a rifle for the first time.
Some did not even know how to reload.
Now they are instructing the new recruits how to take down and reassemble a rifle.
This is the salient driven into Madrid itself when the enemy took the University City.
After repeated counter-attacks they are still in the "Casa de Velázquez", the palace on the left with the pointed towers, and in the ruined Clinical Hospital.
The bearded man is
Commander Martínez de Aragón.
Before the war he was a lawyer.
He was a brave and skillful commander, and he died in the attack on the "Casa del Campo" on the day we filmed the battle there.
The rebels try to relieve the Clinic.
Julián, a boy from the village, writes home:
"Papa, I will be there in three days.
Tell our mother".
The troops are called together.
The company is assembled to elect representatives to attend the big meeting for celebrating the union of all the militia regiments into the new brigades of the People's Army.
Enrique "Lister", a stonemason from Galicia.
In six months of fighting he rose from a simple soldier to the command of a division.
He's one of the most brilliant young soldiers of the Republican Army.
Carlos, one of the first commanders of the Fifth Regiment.
He talks of the Army of the People.
How they are fighting for Spanish democracy and for the Government they themselves have chosen.
Fighting together we shall win a new strong Spain.
José Díaz, he used to work twelve hours a day as a typesetter before he became a member of the Spanish Parliament.
Gustav Regler, one of the fine writers of Germany, who came to Spain to fight for his ideals.
He was gravely wounded in June.
Regler praises the unity of the People's Army.
The defense of Madrid will remind men always of their loyalty and courage.
The most famous woman in Spain today is speaking.
They call her "La Pasionaria".
She is not a romantic beauty, nor any Carmen.
She's the wife of a poor miner of Asturias.
But all the character of the new Spanish woman is in the voice.
"Comrades of the 12th Flag,"
"José Leiva speaking. Do you know me?
I'm among my brothers of The People's Army..."
"...where I've been given an excellent treatment".
"Here you can't see the beastly
treatment we are given in those lines".
Living in the cellars of that ruined building are the enemy.
They are Moors and Civil Guards.
They are brave troops or they would not have held out after their position is hopeless.
But they are professional soldiers fighting against the people in arms, trying to impose the will of the military on the will of the people, and the people hate them, for without their tenacity and the constant aid of Italy and Germany, the Spanish revolt would have ended six weeks after it began.
This battalion goes on leave, and Julián, who is with them, has three days leave to the village.
The Duke of Alba's Palace is destroyed by rebel bombardment.
Treasures of Spanish art are carefully salvaged by government militiamen.
Madrid, by its position, is a natural fortress, and each day the people make its defences more impregnable.
You stand in line all day to buy food for supper.
Sometimes the food runs out before you reach the door.
Sometimes a shell falls near the line and at home they wait and wait, and no one brings back anything for supper.
Unable to enter the town, the enemy try to destroy it.
This is a man who had nothing to do with war.
A book-keeper on his way to his office at eight o'clock in the morning.
So now they take the book-keeper away.
But not to his office or to his home.
The Government urges all civilians to evacuate Madrid.
But "where will we go?"
"Where can we live?"
"What can we do for a living?"
"I won't go. I'm too old".
But we must keep the children off the street, except when there is need to stand in line.
Recruiting is speeded up by the bombardment.
Every useless killing angers the people.
Men from all businesses, professions and trades enlist in the Republican Army.
Meanwhile, in Valencia, the President...
Julián catches a ride on an empty truck and comes home sooner than he expected.
Julián drills the village boys in the evening, when they come back from the fields.
In Madrid, a future shock battalion of bullfighters, football players and athletes is drilling.
They say the old goodbyes that sound the same in any language.
She says she'll wait.
He says that he'll come back.
He knows she'll wait. Who knows for what the way the shelling is.
Nobody knows if he comes back.
"Take care of the kid", he says.
"I will", she says and knows she can't.
They both know that when they move you out in trucks, it's to a battle.
Death comes each morning to these people of the town, sent from the hills two miles away.
The smell of death is acrid high-explosive smoke and blasted granite.
Why do they stay?
They stay because this is their city.
These are their homes. Here is their work. This is their fight.
The fight to be allowed to live as human beings.
Boys look for bits of shell fragment as they once gathered hill stones.
So the next shell finds them.
The German artillery has increased their allowance for battery today.
Before, death came when you were old or sick, but now it comes to all this village.
High in the sky and shining silver it comes to all who have no place to run, no place to hide.
Three "Junkers" planes did this.
The Government pursuit-planes shot one "Junkers" down.
I can't read German either.
These dead came from another country.
They signed to work in Ethiopia, the prisoners said.
We took no statements from the dead but all the letters we read were very sad.
The Italians lost more killed, wounded and missing in this single battle of Brihuega than in all the Ethiopian war.
The rebels attack the Madrid-Valencia road again.
They've crossed the Jarama river and try to take the Arganda bridge.
Troops are rushed from the North to the counter-attack.
The village works to bring the water.
They arrive at the Valencia road.
The infantry in the assault, where cameras need much luck to go.
The slow, heavy-laden, undramatic movement forward.
The men in echelon, in columns of six.
In the ultimate loneliness of what is known as contact, where each man knows there is only himself and five other men, and before them all the great unknown.
This is the moment that all the rest of war prepares for, when six men go forward into death to walk across a stretch of land and by their presence on it prove
"THIS EARTH IS OURS".
The counter-attack has been successful.
The road is free.
Six men were five.
Then four were three.
But these three stayed, dug in and held the ground, along with all the other fours and threes and twos that started out as sixes.
The bridge is ours,... the road is saved.
The men who never fought before, who were not trained in arms, who only wanted work and food, fight on...
Subtitles by:
OZY (2006)
Enthusiasm
Symphony of the Donbass
Produced by "Ukrainfilm"
Kiev 1930
Scenario and director: Dziga Vertov
Assistant director: E. Svilova
Photography: B. Cejtlin
Sound: P. Shtro
Executive producer: Nemirovski
The image and sound of the documentary material were recorded on location using the Shorin system in mines, factories and other real locations.
The following music was used in the film:
A march by composer Timofeev dedicated to the "Symphony of the Donbass".
The final chord of Shostakovich's symphony "The First of May".
Attention, Attention!
Radio Leningrad speaking.
RW 3 - RW 3.
Wavelength 1000.
Broadcasting the march: "The Last Sunday" from the film "Symphony of the Donbass".
The pope is chained to the capital's moneybag.
Away with the steeples!
"The struggle against religion is the struggle for new life".
"Young Worker's Club".
"Lenin
Collected Works v.12 ".
KINO
PLAN
TOWARDS SOCIALISM
It happened in the Donbass,
during the Five-Year Plan.
In 1930.
There's no more coal.
SHORTAGE
The country needs to be given coal!
"Against slacking in work"
And what are we going to do now?
We need to make a clear demand:
To the production advisors and to the shock workers.
We need to make leeway instantly!
But can a single individual accomplish that?
A bureau secretary?
The union chairman?
The mine administrator, the technician? Anybody? Certainly not!
The whole Komsomol needs to be mobilised.
All the shock workers all workers, actually.
It must be ensured that the working masses in the mines are included in making leeway.
I, a shock worker from pit #1, promise to overfulfill the Plan till the year's end...
28 000 tons!
I, a shock worker from pit #9, promise to exceed the quota this year and to deliver 28 000 tons!
In the Five-Year Plan's third year of struggle,
the Donbass' miners must bear in mind
that their socialist country's primary industries depend on their efforts.
We, members of the Komsomol go to the Donbass frontlines!
Here come the shock workers!
Here come the Enthusiasts!
Here comes the metal.
Here comes the coal.
Donbass launches the attack.
The boiler house will meet the quota of the Plan's decisive year.
Coal.
Coal for the factories.
An affair of honour.
A point of glory.
A matter of courage and of heroism.
We are fighters in the front-line of fire.
The Plan was fulfilled in four year's time!
For the Communist party's cause!
For socialism's cause!
"Hail socialism's achievement the communist mode of operation!".
In the days of struggle to fulfill the Plan
of the proletariat's inconceivable heroism
of the boost in socialist rivalry, mines and factories proclaim:
Socialism's construction advances at full speed.
Fully laden waggons leave the Donbass.
Waggons laden with coal and steel.
Kolkhoz peasants,
Brigade #4 from the Donbass!
Mind our mission!
The harvest is our challenge!
We, Brigade #4 commit ourselves and declare ourselves shock workers.
We commit to harvesting swiftly and meticulously.
We call on Brigade #6 to follow our example.
Endow new generations with socialism!
Hail collectivisation!
Hail the dictatorship of the proletariat!
Hail the shock worker's movement!
"Stride towards socialism".
Synch by Dan
THE FILM OF THE 11TH
OLYMPIC GAMES BERLIN, 1936
DEDICATED TO THE FOUNDER OF
THE MODERN OLYMPIC GAMES
TO THE HONOUR AND GLORY OF
THE YOUTH OF THE WORLD
PRODUCED BY
MUSIC BY
Festival Of The Nations
I proclaim the Olympic Games of Berlin celebrating the Eleventh Olympiad of the modern era
Open!
The Olympic games have started.
The world’s best have come to Berlin.
51 nations will fight for victory.
The Olympic discus throwing starts with
Carpenter, USA
Out
Schroeder
The German with the world record
The Norwegian, Soerli
Sillas, Greece
The second American,
Dunn
Berg, Swden
Ling, China
Out
Noel, France
Reich, Germany
Oberweger,
Italy
For the last time,
Schroeder, Germany
Only 47.93 meters again
Now Carpenter
Victory and gold medal for America
Discus throwing, women.
The Polish girl Wajsowna is the chief opponent for the German Gisela Mauermayer who holds the world record
Now the Japanese girl,
Toshima
Wajsowna from
Poland more than a meter further than
Gisela Mauermayer
Sivarova from Czechoslovakia
Exactly 34 meters
Mineshima,
Japan
Paula Mollenhauer,
Germany
Gisela Mauermayer
Wajsowna,
Poland
The Polish girl is still in the lead
The last chance for
Gisela Mauermayer
New Olympic record
Gold medal for Germany
Javelin throw, women
It will be between
Liesel Krüger, Germany,
Maria Kwasniewska, Poland and
Tilly Fleischer, Germany
In the last series:
Krüger
The Polish girl
Tilly Fleischer
Gold and silver medals for Germany,
Poland third
Hurdles 80 meter, women elimination heat
Hurdles 80 meter, women, in the final we have
Valla and Testoni,
Italy
Taylor, Canada
Braaketer, Holland
Steuer and Eckert,
Germany
Testoni is fast, the first to jump over the hurdles,
Taylor from Canada comes to the front,
Valla, Italy and Steuer side by side, but Valla finishes first.
First, Valla
Italy,
Second, Steuer
Germany
Third, Taylor
Canada
In the hammer throwing, two Germans made it to the final, to face Warngård from
Sweden.
Now Rowe, USA
Hein, Germany
Hein is in the lead
Warngård, Sweden
13cm more than Hein
Blask, Germany
Koutonen, Finland
Hein, Germany recaptured the lead
And now, the last up
Sweden
Blask, Germany
A fantastic throw, new Olympic Record
Germany in the lead
Hein is throwing for the last time
Even further, 56.49
German double victory in the hammer throwing, third Warngård, Sweden
100 meter heat
The fastest sprinter of America,
Jesse Owens, at the start
Owens wins in 10.4 seconds
In the next heat, the strongest sprinters are
Borchmayer, Germany
McFee, Canada
Berger, Holland and Sweeney, England
Borchmayer wins in 10.5 seconds
10.20, world record ....
Due to a following wind, not accepted
The final of the 100 meters
The six fastest sprinters in the world take part
Borchmeyer,
Wykoff,
Owens,
Strandberg, Osendarp and Metcalfe
Owens is already in the front,
Strandberg behind him,
Osendarp tries with all his might,
Metcalfe sprints.
Winner in the 100 meters,
Jesse Owens
Women's high jump
The crossbar is set at 1.40 meters
Jumping now is Bell, Canada
Carter, Australia
Dorothy Odam,
England
Elfriede Kaun,
Germany
Csak, Hungary
The bar is now set at 1.55 meters
Arden, USA
3rd shot
She's out
Koen, Holland
Dora Ratjen, Germany
Bell, Canada again, she failed twice
She's out
The bar is now set at 1.60 meters
The first attempt by
Elfriede Kaun
Out
Csak, Hungary
Also out
The 16 year old Dorothy Odam
Elfriede Kaun tries it for the second time
Out again
And now the girl from
Hungary
The last chance for the Germans
And now the bar is set at 1.62 meters
Kaun, Odam and Csak still in the running
First, the English girl
No... out
Now our Elfriede Kaun
Out
The last one, the Hungarian girl
Winner Ibolya Csak
First gold medal for Hungary
For the shot-put the favorites are Torrance, USA,
Bärlund, Finland and
Woellke, Germany
First the German Sievert
Kuntsi, Finland
Torrance, the American world record holder
Berg from Sweden
Francis, USA
Stöck, Germany
The Finnish master Bärlund,
Woellke's main rival new Olympic record
Woellke, Germany
7cm less than the Finn
Last attempt by Bärlund
Even further, 16.12
Woellke's last chance
German victory
First, Woellke, second, Bärlund third, Stöck
800 meter run, the best runners in the world are ready.
Two black runners against the strongest of the white race.
In the middle Edwards,
Canada next to him McCape from England.
The favorite for this run is the very tall black Woodruff.
Lanzi, Italy is the hope of Europe
Edwards taking the lead, before Anderson from Argentina and Lanzi from Italy
Edwards still in front but Woodruff is coming up
Kucharsky from Poland attacks, is now next to the Canadian and takes the Iead.
But Edwards comes to the front again.
Woodruff attacks and takes the lead.
Lanzi is fifth.
Edwards in the lead again, he wants to win the 800 meters... to win for the first time in his third Olympic games.
Where is Lanzi?
First
Woodruff, USA, second
Lanzi, Italy, third
Edwards, Canada.
For the triple jump we have Japanese athletes against Metcalfe from
Australia.
Romero, USA
Rajasaari, Finland, European champion
Richardson, Canada fault
Wöllner, Germany
New German record
Oshima, Japan
Tajima, Japan
New Olympic Record
Metcalfe, Australia
Harada, Japan
Tajima, Japan
16 meters
New world record and gold medal for Japan
In the long jump we have a final with the German Luz Long and the fastest runner in the world,
Jesse Owens.
Jesse Owens
20 cm more than Long
Now Long again
The German is in the lead
Owens
Again, 3 cm more
Luz Long
Exactly the same result as Owens, a new European record
And one more time
Jesse Owens
New world record
Gold medal for America
The final of the 1500 meter run
Cornes from England in the lead, second Beccali from Italy, third Böttcher, Germany; then Ny, Sweden and next to him the black Edwards from Canada.
Then comes the German
Schaumburg.
Cornes still in the lead... but Böttcher comes to the front,
Beccali is catching up,
Schaumburg fourth, behind Beccali.
Second round,
Cornes in the lead.
But in the middle the American
Cunningham is coming to the front, passes the Swedish Ny, attacks the top, is now next to Böttcher and Beccali... followed by Lovelock.
Cunningham moves to the front
Now he's leading,
Schaumburg comes to the front and is second, before Lovelock.
Cunningham,
Schaumburg, Lovelock, Beccali...
The Swede, Ny comes up, passes Cornes and
Böttcher and passes Beccali
Lovelock and Schaumburg into second place
Two more rounds to go
Cunningham, Ny, Lovelock,
Beccali, Schaumburg
Ny tries to attack the
American runner, after him Lovelock, but the American doesn't give in.
Cunningham and Ny both first.
The Swedish Ny takes the lead, followed by
Cunnigham and Lovelock
The last round begins
Ny in the lead before
Cunningham and Lovelock
Lovelock begins to move up passes the American, passes the Swede.
Cunningham follows...
Beccali is also before Ny who is tired...
Lovelock, Cunningham, Beccali
The American loses speed but
Lovelock sprints...
Beccali fights...
Nothing can stop Lovelock, it's the run of his life
World record
First, Lovelock,
New Zealand world record time
Second
Cunningham, America
Third
Beccali, Italy
High jump for men
The bar is set at 1.85 meters
It begins, Thurber, USA
Castro Mello, Brazil
Asakuma, Japan
Toribio, Philippines
The bar is set at 1.90 meters
Yada, Japan
Kotkas, Finland
Weinkötz, Germany
Tanaka, Japan
Asakuma, Japan
Albritton, USA
Johnson, USA
The bar is now at 1.97 meters
Asakuma, Japan
Kalima, Finland
Weinkötz, Germany
Tanaka, Japan
Yada, Japan
Thurber, USA
Albritton, USA
Johnson, USA
Now the bar is set at 2.03 meters, only four men are left...
Kotkas, Finland, the best European, starts.
Out
Thurber, USA
Albritton, USA
Johnson, USA
Olympic record
First, Johnson, second, Albritton, third, Thurber.
The jumpers from America win.
110 meter hurdles, elimination heat
From the left to the right:
Lavery, South-Africa, Finlay, England the black Pollard, USA,
Ivanovic, Yugoslavia;
O'Connor, Canada and Wegner, Germany.
In the first semifinal, American,
Forrest Towns set a new world record: of
15.1 sec.
His main rivals are the black American
Pollard and Finlay from England.
Almost together they go over the hurdles...
Finlay is a bit behind now,
Pollard in the lead.
But Finlay’s coming on.
In the final fight he's very fast.
With stretched legs both men go over the last hurdles.
And Finlay is the first, with style!
Second
Pollard, America
Third
O'Connor, Canada
Forrest Towns just before the final
His main rivals are Finlay and the black American, Pollard
At the start
Pollard, America; O'Connor, Canada;
Thornton, England; Lidman, Sweden
Forrest Towns, America and
Finlay, England
Finlay and Towns go together over the first hurdles, but Towns gets faster... and is ahead of Finlay.
Pollard catching up, tries hard, but
Towns flies over the last hurdle
Towns wins
Towns wins with the amazing time of 14.2 seconds before Finlay, England and
Pollard, America.
Nikkanen, Finland
Toivonen, Finland
Klein, Czechoslovakia
Vattnes, Iceland
Terry, USA
Ueno, Japan
Toivonen, Finland
Matti Järvinen... who has the world record; he won in Los Angeles
The Hungarian, Varszegi
Järvinen again
Atterwall from Sweden
And now our
German Stöck again
Toivonen again
Nikkanen, Finland
Last chance for Stöck
German victory in the javelin throw.
For the first time the Finnish supremacy is broken.
The 10,000 meter run
The English in the front.
Potts is leading Eaton, now comes Burnes from England, next to him Askola the Finn.
Potts in the lead before Burnes and Eaton.
But Murakoso of Japan, catches up.
Murakoso is in the lead.
The group of runners has scattered.
Several runners are ahead of the group.
First, Murakoso
Second, Salminen, Finland
Third, Noji, Poland
Then Askola and Iso-Hollo, Finland
Burns from England is sixth
Murakoso holds the lead the order is still unchanged
Askola spurts, past Noji into third keeps moving up to Salminen next to Salminen and Finns are in check their moment has not yet come
Askola drops back passes Noji to 4th place
Burns drops back
Murakoso sets a terrific pace
Askola moves up again to
Salminen and passes
They pass a Japanese, he loses a Iap
Salminen is 3rd, Iso-Hollo in 4th,
Noji of Poland 5th
The Finns have started their long waited attack
...against the Japanese runner,
Murakoso the Finns are challenging
The Finns are ahead the Japanese is third
Iso-Hollo and Askola passed
Murakoso now Salminen passes him
The Finnish team in the front
First: Iso-Hollo
Second: Askola
Third: Salminen
The Finns go faster and faster.
The small Japanese tries to catch up, he's now next to Salminen
He is third now.
Salminen takes the lead, Askola and
Iso—Hollo are following.
The last round, the long spurt of the Finns begins.
The Polish, Noji did one round...
200 meters to go
Askola spurts and is now before Salminen
The last 100 meters
Almost the finish
Salminen tries to attack,
Askola fights, running faster, comes to the front... but Salminen is winning.
First, Salminen, second, Askola, third, Iso-Hollo
The three runners from Finland first, second and third.
The final of the pole vault
25 jumpers have jumped higher than 3.80 meters.
The fight for victory in the pole vault is not over.
The remaining participants have been competing for five hours now.
Three Americans and two Japanese, like in 1932 in Los Angeles.
The cross bar is set at 4.25 meters
Oe, Japan begins
Out
Second try
The strong American, Graber
Out
Graber's world record stands at 4.37 meters
Second try
Out
Last try
Out
Nishida, the Japanese master
Sefton, America
The young American athlete,
Meadows
Out
Meadows, second attempt
The bar is set at 4.35 meters
Two Americans against two Japanese in the Iast part
Oe begins
Out
Sefton
Also out
Now it is between Nishida and
Meadows for the victory
Nishida
Out
He jumped his best
Meadows
Victory for America
New Olympic record
Gold medal for Meadows
400 meter relay for women
Germany, England, America,
Canada, Holland and Italy are in the final.
The German team ran a world record during the heats.
The German runner Emmi Albus is catching up with the runners from Holland and
Canada in the outside lane.
She brings Germany the lead.
First change.
Krauss takes over and passes the Canadian girl, then the girl from Holland,
Germany is even more in the lead, second change
Dollinger flies away, makes the lead even bigger,
6, 8, 10 meters before the others...
Germany cannot lose
Now the last exchange it's up to Dörffeldt... and Germany drops the baton.
This makes way for America...
Helen Stephens storms over the finish.
First, America second, England third, Canada
400 meter relay, men.
In the final we have Argentina,
Germany, Holland, America,
Italy and Canada.
Owens, the fastest man in the world puts America easily in the lead, he passes the Italian, Mariani and gives the baton to Metcalfe.
He passes the Canadian Humber, gives the baton to Draper,
Draper with high speed... is leading and in the curve he makes the lead even bigger.
Draper gives the baton to Frankie Wykoff who runs to victory.
First, America with a new world record of 39.8 second, Italy third, Germany
The Dutchman, Osendarp was third when he lost the baton
The 4x400 meter relay race
In the final,
Germany, America, Canada,
Sweden, Hungary and England
On the outer lane, Wolff from
Great Britain tries to get the lead.
Fritz, the fastest man in Canada is already second and runs after the Brit.
Four meters, three the English man runs slower and the
Canadian, Fritz behind him faster
The next curve...
Fritz catches up
Wolff cannot go faster than the Canadian...
There is Wolff
Wolff and Fritz side by side.
Now the American runner is catching up... next to him the German runner...
Now the Canadian is clearly in the lead
Exchange of the baton.
Edwards a very fast runner... we saw this seven times this week... now he wants to win the relay for Canada
There comes the American runner .... the American close behind him... now next to him... but at the same time there is the English runner... and passes by the two others...
Exchange
Roberts is flying the small British guy is very fast.
England's victory depends on him.
There is the American,
O'Brien coming closer and closer.
England still leading
O'Brien runs faster and is now next to Roberts...
Side by side now... but Roberts is faster...
Roberts in the front, more and more ahead of the American.
1 meter, 2 meters, 3 meters now
England is leading...
Next exchange here is Brown from England, the fastest white man in the world in the 400 meter... we saw him six times this week...
There is the American...the best
American runner Fitch
Centimeter by centimeter he catches up.
The English runner gives everything he has... it will be between America and England...
Still 200 meters to go
The American comes closer...
Brown has to fight...
The American attacks...
The American only two meters behind the English runner.
But Brown doesn’t give up... with his Iast strength he fights against the American for England
And wins in the 4x400 meter relay.
First, Great Britain second, America third, Germany
MARATHON
Marathon... the hardest endurance test for athletes...
42 kilometers till the end...
56 runners are fighting with all their might for their honor and the victory of their country.
Zabala from Argentina, the winner in Los Angeles, wants to win for the second time but
Japan is a strong rival.
Nan is the favorite but Son is also strong.
And the runners from Finland, can they beat the Japanese?
The runners are leaving the stadium,
Zabala is in the lead.
Here is German radio.
We are on the Marathon route. kilometer 8.
In the lead is the winner of the world record in 1932, Zabala, Argentina.
Second is the Portuguese, Dias
Son, Japan and Harper,
Great Britain are third.
Attention, attention.
At this point they have to return...
Zabala still in the lead
The group has dispersed.
The athletes are... now running on the glowing asphalt.
After Zabala, we have the Japanese,
Kitei Son and the English, Harper side by side
The Portuguese, Dias is third, the Swedish, Enochsson and the South African, Coleman follow him
The members of Finland's team are together, trying to catch up.
Three runners, one country, one will!
They still have
21 kilometers to go.
Here is the speaker at the
Kaiser-Wilhelm Gate.
The runners have now 35 kilometers behind them.
Zabala, the winner of Los Angeles has collapsed.
He went too fast in the beginning.
Son
Japan, is leading
Winner of the Marathon
Kitei Son, Japan second
Harper, England third also from Japan, Nan fourth
Tamila, Finland fifth
Muinonen, Finland sixth
Coleman, South-Africa
LAND WITHOUT BREAD
This cinematographic test of human geography was rolled in 1932, just a short time after the coming of the Spanish Republic.
In opinion of the geographers and the travellers, the region who are going to visit, called the Hurdes, is a barren and inhospitable region, in which the man is forced to fight, hour to hour, by the subsistence.
Until 1922, year in which the first highway drew up, the Hurdes almost was not known for the rest of the world and even for the inhabitants of Spain.
Before arriving at the Hurdes, we must pass by the Pond, quite rich town, of feudal character, that it has a great influence on the life of the Hurdes, where almost all the inhabitants are tributary of this town.
This is the church of the Pond.
Two skulls in their niche seems to preside over the destinies of this town.
Generally, the houses has three floors.
Its architecture is little frequent in Spain and give to the streets a medieval aspect.
Most of the houses has recorded on their door a religious inscription:
"Ave María, conceived without sin"
On day of our arrival we see the women dressed for a great ceremony.
We ask why they wear those pretty dresses.
They reply that they must go to the Church square, where they're going to celebrate like every year, a strange and
Barbarian celebration.
Newly wedded men, in front of gathered town, each on of them must take the head of a rooster.
Between two corners, a cord extends of which hangs a rooster tied by the legs.
Each of the riders, in gallop, will have to take the head of a rooster.
After walking triumphantly with the heads of the rooster through the squares and the streets of town, the grooms offer wine to everybody.
The escanciadores, along with the wine, offer pleasures to thousands.
Among others, we see this boy rich adorned with silver medals
Although they are Christian medals, we cannot help thinking the amulets come from savage villages of Africa and Oceanía.
We left the Pond, where at 7 pm almost everybody is already drunk.
3 kilometers away, from one of the tops of the mountainss that surround the town, we discover the fifty two towns that constitute the Hurdes, with a total population of ten thousand inhabitants. through steep slopes, we crossed the splendid valley of the Batuecas inhibited by old monks, who live with their servants.
This valley was inhabited for four centuries by monks, the Carmelites, who preached the Christian religion in the most important towns of the Hurdes.
The Batuecas has conserved vestiges of intense prehistoric life.
In the caverns the are crafty paintings representing men, goats and bees.
Toads, snakes and lizards are the only present inhabitants of these ruins.
The vegetation is anundent, and more than 200 species grow here freely.
Nevertheless, five kilometres from this valley no longer we will find trees.
Only some fruit trees, rockroses and brezos.
The convent is surrounded by a wall eight kilometres long that protects from the attacks of wolves and wild boars.
Inside the enclosure, formed by the wall, the ruins of eighteen hermitages, scattered here and there, indicated by one or several cypresses.
Behind these tops, that still belong to the Batuecas, begin the Hurdes.
After crossing them, we find the desert of the Hurdes.
This town is the Aceitunilla, located in one of the poorest valleys.
The white building is the school, built recently.
In the streets onthe slope of the mountain we meet its daily life.
Peculiar detail, in the towns of the Hurdes we have never heard singing.
Sometimes we can run, in the middle of the town, a miserable brook that descends from the mountains.
In summer, there is not much water in the town and the inhabitants use it, in spite of the filthy dirt in the channel.
There are weired scenes here.
The river serves the whole town
Three children eat a bread slice dipped in water.
The bread, until recently, was almost unknown in the Hurdes.
It seems that children's teacher, makes the children eat in his presence, fearing that as soon as they arrive home, theit parents will take it away.
They call the children to the school.
These ragged, barefoot children, receive the same education as any other children anywhere in the world who go to the primary school.
The clothes bring the hurdanos that emigrate for summer to territories of Castile and Andalusia.
They are dedicated mainly to the mendicidad.
When they return to their land, they distribute lots of clothes in exchange for potatoes.
They teach these hungry children, like everywhere, that the sum of the angles of a triangle is equal to two right angles.
In some towns of the Hurdes, most of the children are "pilus".
The abandoned will be looked for by the women of the Hurdes from the public assistance of Rodrigo City, located away two days of march through the mountain.
They are in charge of raising them in exchange for a fifteen pesetas a month.
This miserable amount will let the whole family live until the day, not very distant, when the industry of "pilus" is prohibited in the Hurdes.
Unexpected and shocking picture that we discovered in the school.
Who could make this absurd engraving here?
We opened randomly a moral book that we found in the school.
One of the best students writes in the slate, on our request ours, one of the book's maxims.
The moral that is taught to these small ones is the one that prevails our civilized world:
"Respect the other people's goods".
In this relatively rich valley, there are some walnuts, cherry trees and olive trees.
This it is the town of Martilandrán.
The crusts that see between the trees, resambling the shell of a mythical animal, is nothing more than the tile roofs of the town.
On the town entraning, a choir of coughs welcomes us.
Most of the inhabitants are sick.
The scenes that appear to our sight are of a devastating misery.
The goiter is the specific illness of the Hurdes High, that constitute the main object of this report.  
See this woman with its goiter: does not have more than thirty-two years.  
In a deserted street we find a girl.  
Do 
Ask al mayor what has. responds that since three days ago the girl is there without being moved. should be patient, therefore complains.  
One of our friends, himself about to her to be reported of what hurts it in the throat.  
Asks It that open the mouth and we can see him the gums and the throat inflamed.  
Unfortunately we cannot do anything by her.  
Two days later we returned al town.  
Al to ask for her, they responded that it had died.  
Of what the inhabitants of this sterile land are fed?  
The only food that arrange, or almost, are the potatos and the beans, and not always; especially in the months of June and July, to this same base of its diet lacks them.  
Its diet cárnica is composed only of hog.  
Only the rich families, if can be called them thus, possess a hog.  
Each year kill al hog: devour the meat in three days.  
In the most fertile places olives grow. often the fruits are devoured for the insects.  
The goat is the animal that better resists in these sterile spots.  
Its milk for the serious patients is reserved that wet in her the bread that the beggars bring of far away and that also is kept for the patients.  
Only meat of goat is consumed when some is killed, thing that happens at times when the floor is abrupt and the steep paths.  
The main alimentary industry of The Hurdes is the apicultura.  
But the hives, in its majority, do not belong to the hurdanos.  
Besides, the honey that the bees extract of the flower of the brezo, is very bitter.  
The owners of the hives are people of The Pool.  
Only leave the hives to the hurdanos during the winter, that here is smoother than in the neighboring province of Salamanca.  
In spring, transport the comenas to Castille.  
In this epoch, is normal to find one or various loaded animals with the hives and that are directed to Castille.  
A day, we find to this donkey, with its load of hives, that two hurdanos carry to Salamanca. a little later, while we eat tranquilly, someone asks aid.  
The hurdanos had tied al stupid.  One of the hives had fallen and the animal had been attacked for the bees.  
The disorderly movements that caused to be defended they caused the fall of other hives and emjambres of bees precipitated on him.  
An hour later, was dead person.  A month before our arrival, three men and eleven mulos had died in the same way.  
The months of May and June are the hardest since, in this epoca have exhausted its provisions of potatos.  
Then are fed of cherries, and as the hunger presses, do not leave that come they to mature and them are eaten green, which dysentery causes them.  
Is then when begin the migrations.  
The men to the ones that does not retain the illness and have been freed of the fevers, go to Castille or to Extremadura, to try to work in it reaps.  
We find Ourselves with some of these caravans, of 10, 30, 50 men, provided only of a blanket. do Not have money neither bread and go very far away, on foot, to seek work.
We cross Ourselves, several days later, with a group of those men that return as themselves they were, without money and without bread.  
Arrive now to one of the essential points of this report.  
What do the hurdanos to build the field that will permit them to eat?  
Begin for choosing a next land to the edge, later with the aid of its women, its parents and its friends, eliminate the vegetació habitual of rockroses and of brezos.  
The tools are always rudimentary: a peak and a pairs. do Not arrange of other instruments to work.  
The plow is stranger in the majority of the towns of The Hurdes.  
Once the land is cleared, raise walls of stones, put some on another, without mortero.  
This wall will protect al field of the winter floods.  
When the wall is built, have to be going to seek the vegetable land to the mountain.  
Fill bags that transport later through the zarzas to its field.  
This work occupies them generally during several weeks.  
See the thin vegetable layer of land that covers a field hurdano.  
The first year the crop is abundant, but later the land is exhausted, to lack of elmentos nitrogenados, and returns sterile.  
All the fields of The Hurdes have form of straits bands of land al edge of the river. often, them grown winter annihilate in uns instants the work of all a year.  
This is the characteristic meander of a course of water of The Hurdes with the small fields escalonados.  
TO lack of money and of animal servants the hurdano cannot obtain guarantee.  
Therefore has to go to the mountain to seek with what to do it, as the family that see here.  
The roads are difficult and the footwear is scarce.  
The most appreciated guarantee is the one that the hurdanos manufacture they with the dry leaves of the tassel, not a very abundant bush in these mountains.  
When they arrive at a favorable place, they fill the bags with the precious leaves.  
But in these places the víper is a very widespread animal.  
One of these peasants was stung by a viper some days ago when collected leaves of tassel.  
The mordedura is not almost never mortal by itself same.  
The hurdanos are the ones that, while they try to be cured, at times infect it mortally.  
When they have finished collecting of leaves, the peasants return to the town and empty the content of the bags inside the houses.  
On these leaves animals and people sleep together.  
The leaves decompose slowly and, some months later, they will use them as a guarantee.  
This is the house of an inhabitant of Fracassant.  
Through the entrance you walk on a bed of leaves, that is always present in the houses of the hurdanos.  
Interior characteristics of a house.  
All the utensils are primitive and scarce.  
The smoke leaves where it is able.  There are no chimneys or windows.  
In summer, the water runs almost dry and this fact is the origin of malaria, transmitted by the mosquito anofeles. is able to say that all the hurdanos are affected by malaria.  
This illness at present is fought by the doctors of the three "Factories" of The Hurdes.  
The larva has to rise to the surface of the water to breathe.  
If it stays parallel to the surface, it is a larva of anofeles.  
If is stays perpendicular, it is a larva of culex, an inoffensive mosquito.  
The adult anofeles is found in all the houses in the hurdes. it can be recognized because of its perpendicular pose on the wall.  
This is the result of a anofeles bite.  
A man attacked by the fever, seated near its house.  
You can find many patients on the streets.  
This patient put to bed on the balcony does not suspect our presence.  
Balconies are rare in the majority of the towns of The Hurdes.  
The dwarves and the cretins abound in The High Hurdes.  
Generally their families employ them to take care of the goats.  
Some are dangerous.  
OR well flee of the men, or well attack them to stonings.  
They are found in the mountain at the fall of the night, when return to the town.  
We had great difficulties in filming some of them.  
The realism of a Zurbarán or of a Bank, remains under very similar reality.  
The degeneration of this race owes itself mainly to hunger, to the lack of hygiene, to the misery and to incesto. the lowest that see here is twenty-eight years old.  
Here is another type of old cretino.  
We could only film this thanks to the contribution of one of our friends of the hurdanos that knew to entertain its speaker.  
A day, we see a group of persons in front of the door of a house.  
A boy has just died.  
The mother.  
A death is one of the rare events that can roll himself in these miserable towns.  
The women respond in mass to the funeral house.  
They have explained the complications in transporting a corpse, due to that, in many towns, there is not cemetery.  
They had to transport this boy to the cemetry of Nuñomoral, and we decide to continue the body.  
The corpse was placed in a trough and taken for many kilometres through the thickets.  
If the dead person is an adult, they tie the body to a stair and carry him thus to the cemetery.  
This sometimes requires hours of march.  
See the step of a river with the corpse.  
The cemetery shows that, in spite of the great misery of the hurdanos, its religious and moral ideas are the same as in any another part of the world.  
The court summons of the tombs is indicated by a cross or by a piece of wood.  
The uniquely luxurious things that we have found in The Hurdes are the churches.  
This is found in one of the most miserable towns.  
An interior of the most comfortable of the inhabitants.  
Here are the father, the son, the daughter-in-law and the two grandchildren.  
On the wall, the presence of this role trimmed and the alignment of the covers detonate a certain sense of the decoration.  
In some towns, a woman travels through the streets at night.  
Is the pregonera of the death?  
Goes agitating a chime and at times stops for salmodiar a prayer.  
All the inhabitants of a house hurdana live in an only room.  
This house is a little more comfortable.  
Is composed of a stable in the lower flat and, in the first flat, of a kitchen and one room.  
Surprisingly, there is a bed.  
The hurdanos go to bed completely dressed in winter.  
They wear the clothes until they fall in shreds.  
This is what this woman says:
"Not to have swum that maintain better awake than thinking always in the death. you Pray a Fowl María by the rest of the soul of. .." after being two months in The Hurdes, we leave the region.  
The misery that this movie comes to show us is not a hopeless misery.  In other regions of Spain, montañeros, rural and working its conditions of life managed to improve being associated, being helped mutually, being claimed near the Public Powers.  This current that will carry the Town toward a better life, will orient the last elections and will give place to the birth of a government of the Popular Front.  
The rebellion of the generals helped by Hitler and Mussolini should re-establish the privilege of the large owners, but Working and Rural of Spain they will conquer to Franco and their accomplices.  With the aid of the antifascist of all the world, the calm, the work, the happiness, they gave rise to the civil war and they will make the miserable homes that this film has shown you disappear forever.
Hello, Patcheen. Pull it up!
Go to it, Tiger.
- Pull her up.
- Up she comes.
- Keep her moving.
- This time, lads.
Steady there.
Upwards and all that.
Pull up, Maggie.
I was nearly drowned at that time.
Heave her up now.
Up she comes.
Come over up here.
Where are you walking to?
We're hauling now.
All right now.
That'll do. Turn her over now, boys.
Over with her now.
We took our rest in it, Coley.
Hold on to that.
- Pull her over.
- Nice and gently now.
Lift her up.
Up now.
Come on.
Mind yourself going up there, Coley.
Go easy, boys.
That's a chilly wind.
Down, Stephen.
Put her down.
Out now.
Out, Patcheen.
Eh, you're good fellows.
It ought to be great here.
Oh, that's no good.
Oh, hurry!
- Hurry!
- Come on, Patcheen!
Come on dear!
Pick it up!
There now.
- Drop it.
- Watch yourself!
Look out, Stephen.
Pick it up. Come on.
I thought she was going in.
Go on. Got it now.
Look out, Maggie. Be careful.
Come on now.
Pick it up. Come on.
Grab it there in that corner.
Hurry! Hurry!
Let it go. Drop it. Run up.
Run up!
Come on now. Come on now. Come on.
Pick it up. Quick! Quick!
Look out there! Look out, boys!
Climb onto the rock, Maggie.
Get up, Maggie. Come down, Patcheen.
Lift her up. Lift her up.
Come down, Stephen.
Get your feet over here.
Come on, before the sea carries you away.
Get up. Come on.
Come on, lift her up.
Eh, you did it. Don't mind me.
Lift it up, boys.
There, there.
Come on with you.
The net is gone to the devil.
It's torn to pieces.
Oh, never mind, Colin.
I showed the ween what to do.
We have nothing left but the cots.
You got a great drenching, Michaelin, didn't you?
By God, I never saw the sea so!
Pick yourself up, Michael.
Let's pull ourselves together.
I'm doing my best, aren't I?
Eh, leave him alone, Colin.
Lift up that net. Lift it up.
It is caught there on that rock.
It is there, Colin.
Lift it up.
We have it. We have it.
We're all right now.
We are, thank God.
That's it. Now, go on, Maggie.
A little bit more.
That'll do now.
- That's good now.
- You're fine and strong. God bless you.
Well, I thought I was going to get drowned that time but I wasn't.
I'm sorry I got you by the hair.
But I didn't want to lose you.
It isn't as though you're about to lose me, Colin.
Go on.
Go on.
If it's like this tomorrow, we should have enough.
Well, if we'd have five or six loads more we ought to have enough.
Not quite.
I'd say we'd want ten loads more.
- As much as that?
- Yes.
Are you going to put the seaweed out tonight?
We'll do our best.
We'll put some of it out.
- Go on!
- Oh, look!
Look, I'm drenched.
Go on.
Go on!
Go on.
Up.
Up with you.
There's much more down there, Patch.
A couple of baskets more.
Let us lift. Go on.
Good boy, Mike. Good boy.
Drop her down.
Good man, Patch. Good man.
- Haul it up, Mike.
- Haul it up.
Haul her up.
Come on, then. Hup.
Haul her up.
- Keep it going.
- We are, Patch.
Listen, if it's too heavy for ye...
Up with it.
Up she goes.
Up she goes.
The sooner we're out, the better.
There's a lot of them there, though.
There is, and they're heading in, too.
Look at them.
Come on.
- Did you strike him under the fin?
- Aye, I did.
Mind your back.
We stand a good chance now, so...
- Hang on now, boy. Hang on.
- Handle her carefully now.
Give him plenty clear.
Give it to me.
Get the harpoon out.
When do I turn her?
Nothing out.
I think we stand a good chance.
Handle him. Handle him!
Grab me a line.
Check him, boys.
Take him with this.
Watch that line now. Watch the line.
- Make a lot of room for him.
- Careful now.
The boat's in line there now.
Stand clear of the line.
Stand clear of the line there now.
You'll go over the side if that catches you. Stand clear there.
Stand clear. Let it out.
Stand clear. Stand clear.
Steady now. Steady now.
Hang on. Hang on to him. Hang on.
He's in a bad way there, now.
Most of your rope. Lower the rope out.
And draw your line forward over the bollard again. This line goes there.
Now, boys!
- Careful, now.
- Hold him now.
- Tiger's over.
- He's not.
Stand clear of the line, will you?
- Come on, then.
- Move your leg.
Clear below, Patch.
Steady, now. Steady.
Don't cut it yet.
Don't cut it yet, Patch.
Take her down.
I got it! I got it!
- Haul it in. Haul it in again. Come on.
- Grab the knot.
Terrible big monster on that.
The way he pulled that.
Well, they have thundering strength to them.
Look at how twisted it is.
Easy now. Slack up that line to me.
It's all slack. It's all slack.
Wheel her around.
- Back water, Tommy.
- All right. All right.
He's a master of that fellow.
A bigger fellow in front of you there.
Get ready for him.
Hey, hey! Hold on to him!
Hold on to him!
Come on, Michaelin.
- Do you think they'll get it?
- Sure they will.
- Keep her head up, Patch.
- Right ahead.
- Direach sin.
- All right. Don't be shouting too high.
Right. Don't splash me. Don't splash.
All right. Steady, boy. Steady.
All ready.
Careful now.
- Careful now.
- Hang on a minute.
Bring the bow on to him.
A good throw. Hit him!
Strike it out! Strike out!
Here's the rope. Clear the line!
Yes.
Clear the line.
Clear the line.
I've got a second turn on it.
Give him line. Give him line.
Slash away. Slash away.
There he is. He's going.
Close him down.
Try and hold him.
Close him down.
Well, he's on the bottom now.
Well, I hope that this...
Row her out.
Pull.
Heave.
He's coming.
We have him!
How much have we got to get?
We'll get no inch of him now for a while.
Hold what you got. Hold what you got.
Hold what you got.
Steady now.
There's too much strain on it now.
Turned fish on the end of it.
That side?
Down that way.
Have you any sight of him there, Tommy?
He's down this way.
- See him, Coley?
- Yes.
I see the way the rope is going.
- The line.
- He's holding on the bottom now, Pat.
- You thinks so?
- He is.
I tell you now, watch for those bubbles.
Watch for those bubbles, Coley and have your harpoon ready.
Yes.
See the bubbles and before he makes a dash for the open sea...
Look out. He's going to make a drive. Look out.
He's on this side now again, Pat.
Get the second harpoon out.
We have a good chance.
See him?
Yes. I see him. I see him.
- Pretty close now to you.
- I know.
Steady yourself down.
Pretty close.
Round the stern, he's there, Pat.
I'm working around the boat.
- Another little heave.
- There he is!
Here he is. We have him.
Here he is.
Go for that tail there now, Coley.
He looks pretty weak, I think.
Here he is.
Steady now. Steady now.
Easy piece of meat.
- Do you think?
- Yes.
Watch the tail, you, anyhow.
It doesn't matter how weak they are.
A blow from that'd kill you.
There he is.
He's shook.
Played out, I think.
About time now.
When you see your chance.
When you see your chance.
- He looks about played out, I think.
- I'm trying to get a hook into him.
Go for that tail.
Go for that tail there.
Look out. Mind yourself.
- Ah, I think he's about.
- That he is.
Now turn.
- I'll get another harpoon in.
- Go on. Make a good drive.
Drive it! Go!
Let it go!
Give him line! Give him line!
Give him line!
We're in for the long haul now anyway.
Heave!
What the devil are you doing, Mike?
I'm going with you.
- You can't come with us.
- I want to go.
Back with you now.
No, I must go.
Our hands are full enough without you. Back with you.
There.
Be a good boy now and go home.
Hurry on, Mike.
Did you think that you could go without your harpoon?
Good boy, there.
Right you are, boy.
Just the harpoon, Stephen.
Shove it up there.
I'm going with you today.
- No, you cannot come with us.
- I want to go.
- Good boy, now. Go home.
- Oh, let me go.
There might be big sea in it and
I don't like the looks of the weather.
Come on, Michael, quick!
Michael, come on.
That's it!
Mind the rock!
Mind the rock!
Mind the rock!
Mind the rock!
Get that rope!
Come on, Colin!
Let her go!
Michael, run!
Let's go.
Come on and fetch the line. Come on.
God bless you!
Production Mezhrabpom Film
Screenplay and Direction: D. Vertov
Assistant: E. Svilova
Photography:
Surenskii, Magidson, Monastirstkii
Sound: Shtro
Composer: Shaporin
Orchestra: Blok
Three Songs of LENIN
In every corner of the planet Earth, in the countries of Europe and America, in hot Africa and beyond the Polar circle, they sing songs of Lenin, the friend and deliverer of every slave.
No one knows the nameless authors of the songs, but the songs themselves pass from mouth to mouth, from tent to tent, from hut to hut, from mountain camp to village on the plain.
Our film has been made out of three such songs from the Soviet East.
One song is of woman, throwing off her veil, of electricity, brightening the mountain village, of water, flowing through the desert, of the illiterate, reading and writing, of that which is ILYICH-LENIN
One song is of the October Revolution, of that which is ILYICH-LENIN
One song is of the war for a new and happy life of that which is
Ilyich
LENIN
The room in Gorki where Lenin died, its windows face the park.
Here is the bench we know from the photograph...
SONG ONE
"My face was in a black prison"
My face was in a black prison
I was threading along my life as if I was blind
Without knowledge
I was an unchained slave
But then the sun of Lenin's truth dawned upon me
We'd never seen it before
We'd never heard his voice
But he was so close to us - like our father or even closer
No single father did for his children as much as Lenin did for us
MY State farm
MY State farm
MY country
MY land
MY land
- Do you see the mark?
- I do.
- And the bull's eye?
- Clearly.
- Hold your breath.
- OK.
- When you feel you're ready, shoot.
- OK.
- The target is easy.
- I see.
- Get ready to shoot.
- OK.
Pull the trigger and discharge the cartridge.
If he saw darkness, he made light
He turned deserts into orchards and he turned death into life
MY university
MY factory
MY collective farm
MY collective farm
MY collective farm
He convinced the weak and the poor
That a million pebbles could make a mountain
A million grains could make a harvest
And a million weak people could make the strongest force ever
MY family
MY hands
STEEL hands
MY party
He gave to us everything he had
His brain, his blood and his heart
SONG TWO
"We Loved Him..."
We loved him like we loved our steppes or even more
We'd have given all our dwellings, our steppes and our lives
To bring him back to life
Neither us, nor the grandchildren of our grandchildren will forget him!
He founded our party made of steel
He relentlessly built it up year by year
He instructed it and made it firm
In constant struggle
He was indefatigable in his work
His clever eyes shone and were full of irony
Look at his welcoming smile
Look at his ardent, inspiring speeches to the masses
THE FOUNDER
OF THE COMMUNIST INTERNATIONAL
THE LEADER OF WORLD COMMUNISM
THE LOVE AND PRIDE OF THE
INTERNATIONAL WORKING CLASS
THE BANNER OF
THE DOWNTRODDEN EAST
THE HEAD OF THE WORKERS'
DICTATORSHIP IN RUSSIA
He was simple and straight in his manner; the Russians called him just ILYICH
He lived in a hut; in a hut beyond the marshes
In this place in July and August 1917 in a hut made of twigs the leader of the World October lay hidden from his pursuers and wrote his book.
We have built a monument of granite
The Workers...
In October he led them into battle through breakdown yet they come through cold
YET THEY COME through hunger
YET THEY COME through fire
YET THEY COME
THEY ARE LED BY
ILYICH LENIN
STAND TOGETHER
BRAVELY FORWARD
AGAINST THE FOE
TO US VICTORY IS ASSURED
THE POWER OF THE LANDLORDS AND
CAPITALISTS IS BROKEN IN RUSSIA
AND WILL BE CONQUERED
THROUGHOUT ALL THE WORLD
LENIN
Ah, now he moves not
LENIN
Ah, he is silent...
THE MASSES
MOVE
THE MASSES
ARE SILENT
YOUR HERITAGE AND YOUR WORK
WE SHALL COMPLETE
HOW OFTEN HERE
ON THIS RED SQUARE
We saw him - the LIVING Lenin!
SONG THREE
"In the big stone city"
In Moscow
In the big stone city
In a square there stands a tent
And in it lies LENIN
And if you should ever be in sorrow
Then go you to this tent and look on LENIN
And your grief will pass away from you, like water
And your grief will pass away from you, like water
And your sorrows float away, like leaves upon the brook
The day is bright
And I'm so happy
Dancing in the street
For my mother and father
We're happy
Why shouldn't we dance?
The spring is in full blossom
Our life is become sturdy and joyful
True is our Lenin path
And on every sector of the front, step by step, we are conquering for Socialism our huge country.
I was working on the dam across the River Dnieper, handling cement to supply the crane in bay 34.
We poured 95 baskets of the stuff into the body of the dam.
When we pulled out one of the baskets and levelled the concrete,
I noticed that a piece of pitched paper roofing had fallen on the freshly laid surface.
I picked it up and put it back in its proper place.
But suddenly I lost my balance.
At first, I grabbed the stairway.
But I wasn't able to hold onto it.
Everybody got very frightened.
Another girl started screaming and our foreman pulled me out.
I was completely covered in liquid concrete and soaked to the skin.
To the skin.
My face was covered with concrete and my hands were stained by liquid tar.
They pulled me out and took me upstairs to the drying room, where there was a small heater.
I went back to my post and I worked until the end of my shift.
THE DNIEPERSTROY
BUILDING FACILITY
I was awarded the Order of Lenin for fulfilling production quotas.
NO FORTRESS IS INSURMOUNTABLE
FOR THE BOLSHEVIKS
This magnificent structure is our greatest memorial to the builder of Communism and the first made to bring electrification to the Soviet Union, Comrade Lenin.
If LENIN could see our country now
I am 63 years old.
This year I have harvested
5,500 kgs of wheat.
When I brought it to the state evaluator, there was a special meeting and festivities.
If all collective farm workers worked as hard as I did...
We're working relentlessly, notwithstanding the fact that we have no flour.
I feel that our leaders are speaking real words of wisdom.
These words must be written down and remembered.
They must be passed on to everyone when you return home.
We want to do everything the way our leaders tell us.
You want to lead a life on the collective farm in the right way.
You may think of how it was in the past, but the Bolsheviks reject any retreat.
You must not think of past difficulties but always look to the future, how to proceed forwards.
It is not easy, you have to live through it and digest it, to understand how to approach it.
And only after you understand it all, may you act.
If LENIN could see our country now!
OUR Oil
OUR coal
OUR metal
If LENIN could see our country now!
Our Magnitostroy
If LENIN could see our country now!
If LENIN could but see our country now!
If LENIN could see our country now!
STAND FIRM
STAND TOGETHER
ONWARDS BRAVELY
AGAINST THE FOE
TO US VICTORY IS ASSURED
THE POWER OF THE LANDLORDS
AND THE CAPITALISTS
IS BROKEN IN RUSSIA
AND WILL BE CONQUERED
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
OCTOBER
CENTURIES WILL MARCH
ACROSS THE FACE OF THE EARTH
WITH IRON HEELS
AND PEOPLE WILL FORGET
THE NAMES OF THE COUNTRIES
WHERE THEIR ANCESTORS
USED TO LIVE
BUT THEY WILL NEVER FORGET
THE NAME OF LENIN
THEY WILL REMEMBER
HIS NAME FOREVER
THE END
