From the "GOSFILMFOND" cinematheque
The Suram Fortress
Cinematheque of the People's Commission
Georgia, 1922
Novel - legend by
DANIIL CHONKADZE
Written and directed by
IVAN PERESTIANI
Director of Photography
B. SAVELYEV
Author's dreams...
The serfs.
Bastards!
In the evening Maria finds out that she just became a widow.
There is no justice!
Neither in Heaven or on Earth!
Your reward is in Heaven.
The landowner
... a month later...
I sold your children to the priest, you'll bring them to his place tonight.
Maria decides to run away with her children.
I'm taking the children to their new master.
At Imereti.
Dishonored.
The slave owners, the Zereteli Princes.
You have been talking to the servants again!
The dog faithful to its masters.
Tonight you will kidnap that lady's baby.
And you will take him to my sister in Tbilisi.
You must come tonight at our masters' garden.
Under the moonlight.
Waiting uselessly.
At Tbilisi
Princess Muhranskaja's palace.
The Duke sent him here for being educated.
The baby's name is Durmishhan.
A few years after...
Spring is coming.
The bells call the people to pray and repent.
Maria's children, who ran away to Tbilisi,
Had grown up and they are helping their mother.
The marketplace in the ancient Tbilisi.
Recluse.
She didn't confess for ten years now.
The secret was becoming a heavy burden.
Follow her and see where she lives.
The secret of confession wasn't respected.
The master discovered where his servants were hiding.
Tie them up!
The master's entertainment.
This is infamous and shameful!
I'm leaving!
Mother...
Kill him!
Revenge.
Farewell, my country.
Many years have passed.
The Duchess’s pupil, the maidservant Vardua.
Anna's son, Durmishhan. She drowned, and he was adopted by the Duchess Muhranovskaja.
Do you really love him that much?
I'll see that you get married, but first
I'll help you to become independent.
You hope to become a merchant?
I'll give you some money and a horse...
Go and find your happiness.
In the morning.
He's coming!
You must swear that you'll never forget me.
Hey, Durmishhan!
She had a bad feeling about his departure.
This is how these two men met
Brought together by a tragic destiny.
In Suram Osman-Agi had a little daughter.
Her name was Gajane.
They are coming!
After lunch.
Following desert roads she went to see the witch.
At the witch.
Take a look here.
Poor me!
As a matter of fact...
After leaving everything in Durmishhan's hands,
Osman, who appreciated him very much, gave him his daughter to marry.
Georgian party.
Caucasian dance.
Female dance.
Georgian fight.
...I am guilty of getting married...
... without your blessing...
That night.
Mother, teach me your ways, so that I can have my revenge.
Dozens of years have passed...
Time was flying,
Durmishhan became a respected merchant
One day a visitor arrived to see him in Tbilisi.
During the conversation the guest mentioned the famous witch named Vardua.
Forgotten...
They loved their only son very much, they were spoiling him
At the Mzheti palace.
My King, here's what we've seen along our borders.
At Ardagan in the Kura valley the Turks were descending.
Rebuild all our fortresses in the mountain passes!
Rebuild the fortress of Suram
Near the fortress walls.
There were only a few more bricks to lay.
It's the second time this happens.
This is a bad sign.
The wife and his child said goodbye to Durmishhan as he was leaving for a long trip to buy some merchandise.
Take good care of our son!
The fortress was being rebuilt for the third time.
The Tsar gathered The Council of Nobles and Wise Men of the People.
It came crumbling down three times, we'll rebuild it again
My Tsar, go to Vardua, she knows everything.
Take her advice
The Tsar accepts the proposal.
Avlabar.
Vardua's courtyard.
It has always been like this
Sit here!
Listen, at Suram there is Durmishhan, the merchant
He's got a son
...It already happened anyway... we have to close this boy into the walls...
Near the coasts of Anatolia Durmishhan was being attacked by pirates.
Back at home a tragedy is taking place.
Obscurity, ignorance, superstition
Bad news
She was going mad.
He is here.
He is high up there my son, Zurab!
I will find that evil woman!
Give me a horse!
He is high up there my son, Zurab!
Did you tell them to close my son into the walls?
Evil woman, what did he ever do to you?
Take a good look at me, Durmishhan!
Vardua?
Hold me in your arms, my love, the way you did a long time ago.
Time erases the past, relentlessly.
Only some old ruins are the witnesses of a dark age in which a beautiful country was fighting for freedom.
THE END translated and subtitled by finix http://radical-finix.blogspot.com
The Unholy Three
Twas a balmy summer evening,
And a goodly crowd was there.
Hercules! The mighty...marvelous... mastodonic model of muscular masculinity!
Never smoke cigarettes and you'll be a strong man like him.
Professor Echo! God's gifted genius!
The velvet-voiced ventriloquist!
Nemo, how would you like to walk over to my house and have a drink?
Why walk? Let's run!
Sweet Rosie O'Grady.
That's all there is to life, friends, a little laughter...a little tear...
This dollar pamphlet contains one thousand wheezes and jokes, a guaranteed tonic for dull care!
The price is ten cents, one dime!
Now, folks, that's just a sample of the lady's art!
The show on the inside starts immediately!
See her do the dance that broke the Sultan's thermometer.
You're there, Rosie, the best pal a guy ever had!
And tonight when we eat,
I'm goin' to buy you a swell steak!
I just couldn't hold out on you, Echo.
You're to square a guy!
I'm glad you done that, Rosie.
Money got that way never done no one no good!
Tweedledee! Twenty inches! Twenty years!
Twenty pounds! The Twentieth Century Curiosity!
The Demi-Tasse Daddy.
Fools!
Midnight.
You see, my plan is so ridiculous... so simple... that it scares you.
But... if you come with me, we'll clean up millions.
It's spooky! It sounds... unholy!
That's it!
We'll be the Unholy Three!
The day before Christmas...
And how is Hector McDonald, my
Grandma's little parrot seller?
Don't let her tease you, Hector.
Little Willie darling heard your voice.
He wants you to take him bye-bye.
You're just an old darling, Hector.
I won't tease you any more.
You're makin a play for that guy!
Since when do you own me?
If you tip that boob off to who we are,
I'll lay some lilies under your chin!
If you don't stop yelling, you'll tip him off yourself.
I'll get a Mrs. O'Grady.
I think you'd better show the parrots.
They talk so well for you.
Echo, the ventriloquist, could make wooden dummies talk... now watch the jolly parrots.
Isn't it wonderful how the parrots always talk to your Grandma?
That house, where you called about the parrot, was robbed last night.
This is Mr. Arlington.
The parrot you sold me doesn't talk.
Here's another parrot that won't talk.
All right, I'll come over.
I'm sure when the bird sees me it will feel more at home.
The lady from the bird store, Mr. Arlington. may I leave him here?
He might cry if he sees the...
B-I-R-D
Take mine, darling... and Granny will get you some red beads just like those.
He's always been so fond of beads!
Christmas Eve...
...and then, Echo says to my, "Granny will get you some red beads just like those"!
Yes, and before morning Granny will have those pretty red beads.
Hector's out there with a
Christmas tree for little Willie.
Didn't I order you to stay away from that guy?
I wasn't with him!
I met him on the corner headed for here!
Wait for me in the kitchen.
You go back to bed, Mrs. O'Grady.
Rosie and I will trim the tree.
Get rid of him! we're gonna pull that Arlington job tonight.
Oh, I'm mad at Granny!
She won't stay in bed!
Perhaps she wants to help us trim the tree.
Yes, she'd love to do some trimming.
That guy bossin me... me and my strength!
He's too jealous to leave her with that boob. Come on... we'll turn this trick alone!
I've a secret I want you to share.
I'm going to ask Rosie to merry me.
But I'm not going to give her the ring until tomorrow.
You and your strength! You're yellow, you big stiff... or you'd come with me.
You heard me! You're yellow!
JOHN ARLINGTON MURDERED
IN HOME BY JEWEL THIEVES.
'Oh, spare my life', said
Mr. Arlington, 'spare my life'!
You... filth!
Don't you realize that you've murdered a man?
That's why I said we'd never carry a gun!
Was there anybody beside yourselves know the rubies were here in the house?
Ther was on old woman from a bird store who saw the rubies.
If you don't want no part of these, because of how we got 'em... then me and the Kid wll take 'em.
You're gonna put 'em back in the safe with the rest of our stuff!
I'm from Police Headquarters.
Oh, yes. Isn't it terrible? Mr. Arlington was one of my best customers.
You were at Mr. Arlington's home yesteday, weren't you?
Did the man you saw with Mr. Arlington look as if he would commit such a crime?
The reason I ask is because sometimes the least little thing gives us a clue.
I hate to see anybody tease a baby.
I don't like to take his toys from him.
Let's finish our talk in the store.
You sold a parrot to Mr. Arlington.
Who delivered it?
Oh! So you delivered it yourself?
You forget easy, don't you?
So long. I'll see you later.
That dick has a line on us... we gotta think fast!
He's got a hunch Hector turneed this trick. 
Let's plant the jewels in the boob's room!
That's it! Make him the fall guy!
That's what we hired him for, isn't it... in case we got in a jam?
Christmas night...
Don't you think my savings are enough for us to start on?
If I loved a man, he wouldn't have to have a dime!
Oh! If you loved a man!
Then why have you let me go on hoping?
Aw, I've just been kidding!
Oh, Hector, I tried so hard to let you know I love you...
I've been a crook... a pick-pocket!
But you're not going to be any more.
I did some pretty bad things myself... when I was young.
Gee, but you've made this a great Christmas, Rosie.
Gee, but you've made this a great Christmas, Rosie!
Ain't you the kidder?
No, Echo, I'm on the lovel. I love him!
Thanks.
What are you going to do?
You'll find out soon enough!
Extry! Extry! Arlington murderer arrested!
What a bonehead I was to overlook that!
McDonald's alibi, that he was at
Mrs. O'Grady bird store, will, be investigated by the police.
That means more investigation... but there ain't goin to be no Mrs. O'Grady when they get here!
Yes there is goin to be a Mrs. O'Grady... that dick saw me here...
You guys can get out of your make-up... but I can't! ¡And I ain't going to the chair alone!
And neither is Hector McDonald going to the chair!
Now, laugh that off... you big stiff!
What are you going to do?
You'll find out soon enough!
Regan is on his way to
O'Grady's bird store.
Here's one thing stronger that you... and I might need him.
It was Spring before the grim machinery of the law worked around to the case of 
Hector McDonald.
Does the defendant's attorney intend to produce the alleged witnesses, Mrs. O'Grady and her grand-daught?
127er
We're making every effort to locate them.
While in a secluded cabin in the mountains...
In his prison cell he sits.
How about just us two dividin the stuff?
Maybe I got a better palan.
You can save him, Echo. And, if you will,
I'll stick with you. I'll never see Hector again.
Yes! You'd stick with me... but you'd go on loving him.
...and the minute he's free, you'd double-cross me and go back to him.
Don't you understand... I'll do anything to save him! I love him, Echo... I love him.
I'd even take that from you.
After that, you don't want to change your mind about sticking with me?
He would always have Rosie... if he saved Hector. This was the thought that took Echo secretly to the city.
Your Honor, I object!
He is mis-stating the evidence!
Objection over-ruled!
Have you lawyer put you back on the witness stand. When you get there keep repeating the Lord's prayer. 
Move your lips But don't utter a sound.
Have faith in miracles.
Mrs. O'Grady.
It's Mrs. O'Grady's handwriting... and she's not here!
Your Honor, may the defendant take the stand again to give new evidence?
In a case so serious as his, with a man's life at stake, the court cannot reasonably deny your request.
Speak louder!
Your Honor, and gentlemen of the jury...
There was an old woman who was a man... and two others... the Unholy Three...
First, it was an old woman and her grand-daughter.
Now, the old woman is a man!
What next?
That wasn't me talking!
I didn't say a word!
...and it must be remembered that defense has failed to produce a single witness to confirm the prisoner's story!
You mean... you want me to go with you?
There's a fortune for just us two to split. What do you say?
Do you think he's guilty?
Will he get the chair?
I'm Echo, the ventriloquist...
Grandma O'Grady of the 'Unholy Three'!
Your Honor, I want to make a full confession!
The Law can be kind... And Echo's confession won freedom for both himself and Hector.
Dear Hector: I'll never see you again...
I can't explain...  but always summber I love you, Hector... I love you.
Good Bya. Rosie.
Echo, you remember what I promised if you saved Hector?
Well... I'm here.
Aw, what's the use of us kiddin, Rosie. We don't love each other. You run along to Hector.
Do you really mean that, Echo?
Good-by, old Pal!
That's all there is to life, friends... a little laughter... a little tear...
THE PENALTY
From the story of COUNERNEUR MORRIS
A victim of the city traffic.
It was young Dr. Feris' first serious case.
The injured child is still
I unconscious of his fate.
I dared not wait any longer.
I amputated both legs above the knee.
There is a contusion at the base of the skull.
Good God! You should not have amputated!
You have mangled this poor child for life.
His father and mother...
My poor boy, I will do what I can for you.
I shall lie for you, and may Got forgive me.
Only immediate amputation could save your child's life.
I heard them say...
He imagines he heard us. It's the effect of the ether.
He lies! He lies!
Twenty seven years later... San
Francisco is the richest city in the western world.
She has one hideous blemish...
The Barbary Coast.
Barbary Nell.
Frisco Pete.
Blizzard, lord and master of the underworld.
Lichtenstein, of the Federal
Secret Service.
Rose, his most daring operative.
Rose, this detail I'm offering you is so dangerous, I hope you will turn it down.
It' s always Blizzard, that cripple from Hell.
Do you remember sweet Barbary
Nell who wandered from our fold?
She' s dead!
I could get him for theft, arson, murder, but his criminal machine would still grind on.
Through the Master I must reach his slave, the underground powers of the Reds.
He' s gathered up his dance hall girls and he' s put them to work in his house, making hats, thousands of hats.
I must know why!
"I believe Blizzard is hatching something so big, it endangers the city.
I must find out what!
By the way, Barbary Nell, who strayed from us, now sleeps upon a marble stab...
... in the morgue.
Blizzard' s favorite for the moment.
A woman who enters that den risks worse than death.
That' s all in the day' s work.
... and I shall walk as men walk.
I shall be the master of a city!
"And for my mangled years the city shall pay me...
... with the pleasures of a Nero and the powers of a Caesar!
But you won' t live to see it... if you don' t pedal better.
It means living in that devil' s house till you find out what he' s up to.
Of course. Well, I' m game.
Dr. Ferris, now the most famous surgeon in his line.
Dr. Wilmot Allen, his assistant.
Blizzard had agents in strange places.
Barbara asked me to call for her.
The surgeon' s daughter Barbara, had dedicated herself to Art.
I' m dreadfully discouraged.
I have done nothing worth while.
Some day she will realize that this is all nonsense.
Sorry you have to go.
Haven' t I waited long enough?
Why don' t you chuck it, Barbara?
Not until I have done at least one thing that is worth doing.
And I' m going to do Satan, after the fall'.
If I fail...
... I will marry you.
Nothing to report.
Blizzard keeps plans to himself.
His people obey orders not knowing their meaning.
My knowledge of music...
...has been my protection.
He likes my pedaling.
Rose
Rose has been there a week... and she' s learned nothing.
You' re a find!
You are not afraid of me... you look me in the eyes.
How could I be afraid... when you play like that?
You are a find!
WANTED - Model to pose of
"Satan After the Fall".
If you thing look like Satan, apply at studio of Barbara Ferris,
32 Institute Place.
Be in front of that studio tomorrow and see that no applicant but myself enters it.
Everything comes to him who waits.
You have mangled this poor child for life.
Do I look like Satan?
Before I am through with her and her father, they' think
I' m the devil himself.
9 A.M, Barbara' s Studio at 32 Institute Place.
Model already engaged.
Bubbles, a street waif whom
Barbara has befriended.
Whenever Blizzard was absent,
Rose hunted for clues.
Some excellent judges think that I resemble Satan.
If there is enough of me.
I seem to please.
I knew about when I was bumming the streets cat-throat' s his middle name.
You ought not touch him with a pole.
Gawd! Look at that face!
If I could catch that expression in the day...
I' d be famous.
How do you happen to know so much about Art?
My father, who shall be nameless, was a distinguished man.
But he detested little boys with their legs clipped off. So at fifteen I hoppled out of his life.
I could write a better treatise on sculpture myself.
Why do you live in the underworld?
When Satan fell from
Heaven he looked for power in Hell.
Hugely satisfied with his morning s work.
Rose, my dear!
Under the piano my darling... we will have some music.
I have a feeling I shall waft you into Heaven.
A death song, Rose!
Rose was my best bet... so far she' s learned nothing.
"I could not have played that way without your help.
Go back to work...
I can murder anything but music.
Days passed and the clay grew into the image of the man who was like Satan...
Into a face clothed with evil intent.
In time man would mangle the soul of the daughter, even as the father had mangled the body of the man.
The end of this passage is barred by a gate but through it
I could see what...
But the most remarkable of all is a fully-equipped operating room.
If you say it' s good,
I know it' s good.
But she hesitated for this would mean the end of Blizzard.
I know of Dr. Allen... and of his great master,
Dr. Ferris."
I will come tomorrow at the same time.
What an admirable pair of legs.
I gave mine to science.
That monster ought to be chloroformed and put out of the way.
He shows me only courtesy and helpfulness.
The end of this passage is barred by a gate, but through it I could see what...
Doctor Ferris investigates.
May I talk with
Mr.  Blizzard alone?
I have followed every step of your career, and you have indeed profited by your early mistakes.
You were the child whose life I ruined?
Don' t let that trouble you too deeply.
It is now in your power to repair your error.
Command me in any way...
But don' t come here any more.
Only your daughter' s request can keep me away. She is making a masterpiece.
Barbara, let me tell you a story.
He lies! He did not have to cut them off.
Behind his visits there is some sinister motive.
I can read it his eyes.
If you have made him what he is, it is all the more our duty to help him.
Blizzard' s man O'Hagan, his back in town.
He has organized thousands of disgruntled foreign laborers.
Hats and men... what' s the devil up to?
Blizzard' s chief lieutenant,
O'Hagan.
You have worked in the dark long enough... this is the plan I have been developing for two years.
2 December
At twelve noon on that day I shall loot the City of San Francisco.
Your 10.000 foreign malcontents will filter into the city in small detachments.
The signal will be an explosion.
By fire and riots I shall draw the police and military into the suburbs.
The heart of the city will be left defenseless... ours to loot at will.
And then we shall vanish with our treasure.
You talk as if you had legs! By God!
You have gone mad!
Perhaps... but with the madness that succeeds!
Better come out of that closet or I will begin to shoot!
Crying won' t help... talking may.
What the use...you' re going kill me anyhow.
I doubt it... you' re the best pedaler
I ever had.
But the most remarkable of all is a fully equipped operating room.
You see, you haven' t been allowed to do much damage.
I think I' m glad.
Don' t you see?
Master!
With exultation he felt the power that his mind was gaining over Barbara.
You are the best critic in the world.
Live your own life... go where I shall point... to your place among the stars.
How am I ever going to thank you the help you have given me?
When you have finished that, don' t give me op.
I love you, Barbara, with my whole heart and soul.
At her laugh his Hell - born loose passions broke.
But almost instantly he knew that he had blundered...
...and like a good general tried retrieve his mistake.
I am the unhappiest beast in the world.
Forgive me having dared to lift my thoughts to you.
Laughter burns a cripple like acid.
I don' t know why I laughed.
You frightened me.
Will you forgive me?
I have come to prescribe a little, Barbara.
Call me a taxi.
True women need love, a home, children. He has made you forget that.
I will marry you, dear, whenever you wish.
After a night of jealous fury, the Beast takes action.
Hello Doctor, this is Bubbles.
It' s about Barbara... she' s gone to
Blizzard' s house.
I do not know why she went. She was crying.
He will run all the way... on those magnificent legs.
Once before a woman surfeited me with her caresses.
She' s dead!
Rose just shows herself at the window and nods... and that' s all.
Where is Miss Ferris?"
She is probably in her room.
Shall I search your house, or will you take me to her?
Listen, my baffled hero... if you wish the lady to go free...
... you must hand over to me your superb legs.
Dr. Ferris will cut them off for you.
Then he will graft them to me.
They will be very becoming.
Your daughter is in my house. She has been hurt. Cowmen at once.
That fairy tale about your daughter was merely to make certain that you' d come.
You' ve played the trick with apes... now I' m putting human beings at your service.
Your victim is fulfilling destiny in making you the master surgeon of the world.
You must make it possible... unless you would have your charming daughter married to these.
Out of my house is not out of my power... that' s here.
Suppose you and your assistant should disappear... then your daughter and I...
Give me legs and I will be a model son-in-law.
Then I will be a tower of strength...
I will be a Caesar!
You are right... you' d be a superman!
I will do it!
Doctor Ferris' sudden decision to operate brought about starling results.
I have waked from a terrible dream!
I was a devil...
I did things that I shudder to think of!
What' s happened... you did not do what he wanted?
That was a madman' s request...
I operated on his head.
There is a contusion at the base of the skull.
That caused pressure on the brain... he has never been wholly responsible for his acts.
This man, let alone may become as great a power for good as he was for evil.
He shall have the chance.
The tyrant' s hand relaxed... the whirlwind breaks.
‘he old Blizzard is no more.
I have assumed my real name
In my madness I built power from evil. I shall undo my handwork.
I am still your friend, but it must be for better things.
He' s got religion... that means he will raise Hell!
How do we know he won' t snitch on us?
If we don' t finish him, he will finish us.
The New Man... and his wife.
We shall do great things together.
Fate chained me to Evil... for that I must pay the Penalty.
"That is a great puzzle,
Perhaps I am going to see it solved.
Don' t grieve, dear... death interests me.
All that' s left of him... an evil mask of a great soul.
Uploader:
Anavyssos
The End
The first professional film by
Josef von Sternberg was unusually bold both subject matter and technical skill.
It framed the style of all gangster films to come.
A great city in the dead of night...
...streets lonely, moon-flooded...
...buildings empty as the cliff-dwellings of a forgotten age -
"The great Bull Weed - closing another bank account."
"That's what makes bums and squealers!"
"I may be a bum, but I am no squealer.
I might say, sir, that I am a
Rolls-Royce for silence."
"All right, Rolls Royce - I'll give you a chance to prove that."
"Keep your eyes off her!
What do you think I'm here for?"
"Watch me show that dame what I think of money."
"Buck Mulligan's looking for trouble."
"How'd you like to pick up ten bucks?"
"Pick it up or I'll send you to the morgue!"
"Give me that gun!"
"Rolls Royce, meet Feathers - my girl."
"How long since you had the body washed and polished, Rolls Royce?"
"If you don't want Mulligan to bump you off, Professor, you'd better stick with me."
"With pleasure, sir."
"Come on, let's drift!"
"Can I possibly be of any assistance?"
"The city is yours, Kid - what'll you have?"
"Attila, the Hun, at the gates of Rome."
"Who's Attila? The leader of some wop gang?"
"You were born two thousand years too late. You can't get away with your stuff - nowadays."
"They'll never get me!"
"I'm either a missionary or a sucker, but I'm going to put you on your feet."
"What could I do to help you?"
"Help me? Nobody helps me! I help other people!"
"I'm going to bury that guy while these lilies are still fresh!"
But Buck should have used wax flowers, for long after his lilies had faded - -
"You don't want that junk. It's too vulgar!"
"Why, it's the old hideaway!
Why did you bring me here?"
"Don't you know it's wrong to steal?"
"Look at him - cost me a thousand - looks like a million!"
"He's read every book in the case - he likes to read!"
"Let's have the key, Professor."
"A perfect getaway - - through our warehouse to the next block.
And nitro couldn't blow those 
         doors!"
"No, thanks. I've got to go out on important business."
"The police all know Mulligan's
Special. Plant the little flower where it will do the most good."
"I told you that guy had brains."
"You stay here. You may have the brains, but I've got the guts."
"What were you before Bull Weed picked you up?"
"A lawyer sometimes - a drunkard always ... what does it matter?"
"A woman, I suppose."
"I'm not interested in women."
"The Captain wants to see you."
"Say - what is this - a pinch?"
"Somebody framed me!"
"Framed you? Since when are you a picture, Buck?"
"You've got the wrong guy this time.
I'll be out in twenty minutes."
"Is this why you're called Feathers?"
"I wear feathers all over."
"What were you before
Bull Weed - er - found you?"
"I thought you weren't interested in women!"
"Bull Weed's our best friend, isn't he?"
"This is the first time in a long while that I've felt ashamed."
"Well, I planted that flower. They've probably pinched Mulligan by now."
"See you at the Ball tonight?"
"You've got to show. Everybody with a police record will be there!"
"Besides, I'm going to make
Feathers queen of the ball."
"- be there! Them's orders!"
The underworld's annual armistice - when, until dawn, rival gangsters...
...bury the hatchet and park the machine-gun.
"Check your gats!"
"Vote for Feathers!"
"Throwing away any ten-dollar bills tonight?"
"Who said you could dance with her - with-out asking me?"
"Our friend has gone back to his booze again!"
"- but I don't want you to drink!"
"Please .... don't!"
"You're Bull Weed's girl - aren't you?"
Elsewhere the night deepened into silence and rest. But here the brutal din...
...of cheap music - booze - hate
- lust - made a devil's carnival.
"F-F-Feathershelected!"
"You tell her now."
"The committee is waiting to crown you Queen o' the Ball."
"You needn't worry about your sweetie. He's out - - for the night!"
"Before sentencing you, I declare to you and your kind...
...that no man, or band of men, can defeat the Law."
"Others have tried it before, and,
I regret to say, will try it again -
- but their fate must be the same as yours."
"All your life you have dealt with the Law as an enemy. And now...
...by a final deed of violence, you have compelled it to end your career."
"I sentence you to hang by the neck until you are dead - -"
"- and may God have mercy on your soul!"
"How are we going to help him now?"
"Don't worry. They haven't hanged him yet."
The Law took no chances. Bull Weed was isolated from his world.
No messages delivered, no visitors admitted.
"- before sunrise tomorrow, to hang the said Bull Weed by the neck until he is dead."
"Any last request?"
"Tell Paloma to bring me the juiciest steak in Dreamland."
"The only one who'll see Bull is Paloma - when he brings him his last meal."
"Here's the plan - the hearse will come to the outer court...
...an hour before the hanging -"
"- and you wait in your car at
Three Corners Road, for
Bull to join you."
"You have Paloma tell Bull -
I'll attend to the hearse."
"Does that mean any danger - for you?"
"The police will only see me buying two tickets at the railroad station -"
"Then they'll be sure Bull is leaving town with me."
"Then I won't see you again?"
"This is good-bye."
"If I lose you, it's my finish.
I love you so -"
"I can't let you go - !"
"We have a chance to lead a decent life. If we get Bull out - we're his again!"
"We can't double-cross him - - we owe him everything."
"We do love each other, don't we?"
"We can't do this - - we couldn't be happy if we betrayed him!"
"You see - you taught me how to be decent."
"Rolls Royce says watch for
 the hearse - two o'clock...
...The gang will be in it - - they'll cover the guards and spring you!"
"That's a lie! Rolls Royce doesn't want me to get out!"
"You've got him wrong, Bull - that hearse will come crashing through like a tank!"
"On the level, Ed - has Rolls
Royce or Feathers ever really tried to see me?"
"Maybe I hadn't ought to tell you - but the whole town knows how they're carrying on."
"Ed, is there time for another game of checkers?"
"You hate to leave the old burg - don't you?"
"Do you think Rolls Royce is still in town?"
"What do you care? You'll be hanging in an hour."
"There's one guy I'd like to get before I hang."
"You're in a tight place now."
"It's your move."
"The plan went wrong - the guards got wise, somehow."
"It's all over with him by now."
"Extra! Bull Weed escapes!"
"What's the extra about?"
"Nothing - just a boob breaking jail!"
"So you've brought the police, too. You little rat!"
"Now you can wait and take what you framed up for me!"
"Bull - listen - we were on the level - we tried to get you out -"
"He sure cinched my finish - he's got those keys!"
"We've got the Bull cornered at his old hangout!"
"If you're waiting for Bull Weed, you'll have a long wait."
"They'll get us both in a few minutes, Bull. Why should I lie to you now?"
"If I could get my hands
 on that lousy skunk...
...I'd go back and
let 'em hang me!"
"I'm sorry things went wrong - but there's still time - for you - to get away!"
"Now you see - - how much he double-crossed you!"
"I've been all wrong, Feathers -
I know it now - I've been wrong all the way -"
"And all this got you was another hour!"
"There was something I had to find out - - and that hour was worth more to me than my whole life."
THE RACKET
Hello, Mac.
Hello Nick
Take a tip, Mac... change your racket.
I like my racket...
...and I haven't shot yet
Nicholas Scarsi
Is a fully recognized member of
THE ANTI-LIQUOR LEAGUE
OF AMERIKA
CAPT. JAMES McQUIGG
POLICE DEPARTMENT
Scarsi's sending a load of beer though Eighth and Grand.
There'll be hell popping!...
That's below Spike
Corcoran's dea-line.
Scarsi's coming in tonight, Spike.
Hit Eighth and Grand after dark.
If Spike tries stop you...
What about McQuigg?
Leave that copper to me.
There may be a little trouble toning at eight and Grand...
...let the boys settle it themselves.
I'll be there.
I'm giving my kid brother a little birthday party tonight at Weiberg's.
Drop in
Don't forget, Mac.
Forget what?
The party.
Scarsi's Spike's gang buffaloed.
There's not one of them in sight.
Scarsi's coming in, Spike!
I warned you Scarrer!
Let's see Scarsi get you out of this, Chick.
CITY EDITTOR
Pratt!
Big killing... Eighth and Grand.
Miller!
Wake up!
Horses!
Happy birthday, Joe.
Gee, that's a swell flash!
Nix on the slang kid.
You're a college man.
Are there going to be any women at the party?
No women!
Women are poison to me.
...And McQuigg took
Chick to the can.
The Old Man'll fix that.
McQuigg's got Chick.
Get him out!
What's he in for?
What's the  difference?
TRIBUNALE
I just called to remind you of the party.
I'll be there.
Lock him up.
There's Nick Scarsi.
What's the big idea of cutting the dance, Helen?
I'm going to sing for Nick's party.
You can away with murder, but you can't
Lay off this kid, you dirty little gold digger!
He's not in the racket... and he's not going to be!
He called me a gold digger.
Well, I'll dig, and dig deep!
You know the boys.
Chick won't be here tonight.
All right, Nick ...
That's a horse on me
Beat it!
This time... it's o horse on you.
Maybe.
Habeas corpus... for the release of
Mr. Nicholas Scarsi, signed by the judge.
This is the last murder you'll ever get away with in my district!
I'm going drive you out!
I've given you lots of chances... but you're just a dumb harp.
So you're going out!
CAPTSIN McQUIGG SENT TO STICKS
Scarsi Feud Seen in Veteran Policeman's Transfer
Gee, Captain! Where is this
Twenty-eighth Precinct?
In the country, out to hell-an-gone.
28th PRECINCT
POLICE STATION
You'd better cut out booze.
It's cut plenty before I get it.
Let's go... McQuigg probably won't talk about his transfer any way.
This is a fine thing to come sailing out of a police station in this
God-forsaken Zone of Quiet.
Captain, you've got to talk... we need a story.
Start another anti-smoke campaign.
I'm Ames, of the "Monitor".
Tell the Captain I'm here!
PRESS
New in the game, aren't you?
Oh, no! I was on the
"Omaha" Bee for a month.
Fancy that!
Hurry up! The captain's waiting for you.
Well, Captain, I'm ready to listen to your story.
We've got some girls downstairs...
Listen to them.!
You can get rid of us, if you'll give us the story.
What's the matter. afraid of Scarsi?
I'm here because Nick's afraid of me!
Find him...
...tell him...
...tell him I told you!
That ought to bring him out here to start something.
If it does... you'll have your story.
Mr. Scarsi is attending
Mr. Spike Corcoran's funeral.
First he plugs them, then he plants them.
Stop them! They ought to show a little respect for the dead.
Why was McQuigg transferred?
I don't know...
Why was McQuigg transferred?
Because, they say, Nick
Scarsi's afraid of him.
I'm mot afraid of anybody!
I'm laying off McQuigg, only until after election!
So if you see that copper, tell him that!
...so if don't get Scarsi before Tuesday, pthe Organization wins the election, and Nick stays in power.
Then what becomes of you?
Those reporters were sent by McQuigg.
Tell the boys to leave him my calling card.
You'll be stopping next... telling me you're out of gas.
That little glow-worm on your engagement finger ought to prove I'm serious.
No, Joe... you can't beat the wedding bells.
Making you walk, eh?
I'll fix the yellow puppy!
Where's the nearest police station?
I got a hit and run driver...
Don't bother me... you Know what to do with him.
What's your name?
Wait'll I tell you, big balloon, you'll burst!
What'd he do?
My name's Johnson. Write that in...
My mother'll like it.
How's your farm, McQuigg?
Scarsi's answer to your visit.
We can't get this bird's name.
Bring him in.
He'll talk.
Come on, Francis!
Oh! Hello!
Didn't your mother tell you not to speak to strange ladies?
Don't thing I'm fresh, but I feel I know you.
I heard you sing.
If that's Joe in there, Scarsi will...
Is he one of Scarsi's men?
Just his baby brother, that's all!
His name is Joe Camino...
Book him!
Shut up, you little fool!
That fellow is Nick Scarsi's brother.
That's the dame he walked...
She saw the accident.
How did it happen?
Sorry, policeman, but I'm tongue-tied.
Put her downstairs with the other ladies...
She'll talk!
I'll phone you, Miss Hayes.
No wonder Nick says women are poison to him.
This one may be dynamite!
Hold everyone hire.
If this gets out, I couldn't hold him an hour.
Good work, Sullivan.
SCARSI'S BROTHER ARRESTED
HIT RUN DRIVER HELD
INJURED WOMAN DIES
Is captain McQuigg in?
I'm District Attorney Welch.
Mac, the old man wants you to release young Scarsi.
Nick will have you thrown off the force for this.
I'll mix with Nick to a finish now.
Tell that to the Old Man!
Tell it to Nick!
...tell him I have the case set for next Wednesday... not next year...
...and tell him the judge's name is Blake!
Nick will start something now.
I'm starting something myself...
I'm ripe to fight!
It's the country air.
Sam Meyer, from Riley,
Platka and Cohen...
...Bail for Joe Scarsi.
Scarsi's raving! You'd better get Joe out of this!
Are you going to leave me here with these...?
Maybe they'll teach you not to be so touchy next time.
Tell Nick you're engaged.
You keep your mouth shut, or Nick'll take care of you!
Gee, I'm glad you're still here.
Alice in Wonderland!
I've brought some things you may need.
I wonder what'll happen if you ever have a baby, and no one's tipped you off about storks.
Left flat!... And you thoght Joe was going to marry you.
And you're afraid to talk.
Yellow... for fear of a couple of bragging punks!
You are liar!
Miss Hayes has agreed to testify against Joe Scarsi...
Phone that to your paper.
Takea Miss Hayes out to dinner... and bring her back.
Are you coming back?
Will you be here?
I'll be back.
The editor won't listen to me...
I'll give the story to Miller and
Pratt... They're at the Dutchman's.
You stay in.
You're a witness Scarsi...
If you're out tonight, you'll be on a slab by morning.
It looks like I'm yellow, hiding in here!
Who's the cop that picked up Joe Scarsi?
I am.
I came to see a witness you got... girl named Hayes.
See the sergeant.
I might as well see you, too.
I'm a friend of that Scarsi kid's.
That's nothing to brag about.
We don't want any trouble with you...
You did your duty.
Duty, my eye! I do my job because I like it... and because I don't like crooks...
...And I don't like crooks for the same reasons I don't like a lot of other people...
...and because they banged my old man...
...and because, generally speaking I'm a better man than they are!
Do you now Nick?
A news paper bad man!...
Everybody knows him, but nobody ever meets the yellow...
I thought Nick had lots of guts.
He'll have a chance to prove it when I shove his kid brother over the road.
Tell Nick to go to...!
Who did it?
Got one of them, captain.
The other hopped a freight...
Ross is after him..
Did you fan him?
If he had a rod, he threw it away.
Hello, Nick.
You like it out here?
I'm beginning to.
I sent my driver in here to see that Hayes girl...
Did he do something wrong?
I thought he was in the pen for some bank job.
He must've got paroled.
Yes... A lot do, since they equipped that penitentiary with revolving doors.
What do you want him for?
I don't want him.
Well, if he didn't do anything...
Somebody did...
...and I've got you!
Are you trying to frame me?
In purple satin under glass.
That's the man!
Now, Nick, how'll you alibi this?
Lock him up.
What's the charge?
Same old thing for you... murder.
All right...
I'll use the phone.
Habeas corpus... for the release of
Mr. Nicholas Scarsi.
You got to recognize a writ...
That's the law!
I'm sick of the law!
We'll fight this out here!
Go phone that to the judge!
Picking a fight, uh?
Drunk, uh?
Put him in the bull pen.
Sweet of you!
I'll give you a story after I talk to Welch.
Plenty of time before we go to press.
It was nice of him to pull it so early.
If you give this to the papers...
Bring Scarsi in.
Nick's put your whole organization in a trap with this job.
If you spring him with what
I;ve got on him, the opposition and their papers...
...you won't have a chance in Tuesday's Election!
So this time I'll force your own Organization to bring him to trial.
Get me out of here!
Are you going to make this boy testify against Scarsi?
You know what Nick will do to him.
I'll take him through this.
Can't you think of anyone but yourselves?
You and Scarsi both...
So cocky you kill a policeman trying to get at each other's throats.
I'll identify him, captain...
I'll testify.
Good boy!
Come downstairs and bring her with you.
I told you not to look after me...
Why did you do it?
Because...
...because you affect me like a mammy song.
Make you identification to Mr. Welch.
So you're Scarsi, the Awful... afraid of women, but death on kids.
Nobody ought to be afraid of you...
...Not when you had to slug this baby!
What'd he get in my way for?
There's your confession!
All of which proves that women are still poison to you.
Mr. Scarsi  swaggered in here a half hour ago...
...and Miss Hayes just tricked him into admitting the killing.
Women and children first.
Get that release order!
As long as your Wards are set for them for Tuesday's Election, what do they care about you?
It's not Tuesday yet...
My Wards can still be set the other way.
You don't win this Election unless I get out tonight!
Speed it up...
I've got a supper party on.
The wash room, please.
I must get ready to leave.
The homicide squad's on the way out to take Scarsi!
Scarsi's gun.
If it's the Old Mam's orders, it's O.K. with me.
Not until I give you the signal.
The Old Man can't carry you and the Election both...
You've got to take the rap until after Tuesday.
Now I'll get the papers in here!
I'll give them a story with names and dates and figures that'll rip this town wide open!
So you want to talk, eh?
I'll call the press...
That'll get the tow of you out of my system.
I'll show you what it means to fool around with me!
Who'd believe you?
I've got everything on paper... ready for a double-cross by you!
How you made that high hat grand jury fold up last month...
...How the Old Man had that kid in the Treasurer's Office accidentally killed by a train!
Who do you suppose I pay for the breweries I own?
Who do you suppose I pay for the alcohol I get?
I'll talk your whole rotten
Organization  into suicide!
The window... it's fixed, for a getaway.
I thought you'd crawl when
I spoke that piece.
Give me a gun!
What's goig on here?
Tell him!
Did you imagine I'd let any lousy politicians, who'd knock their own mothers over the head for a vote, tell me what to do?
I'm off you worms! I'm going to deliver my Wards to the reform gang for a laugh!
To lick you, we'll have an election for a change that's square!
Give me that gun!
In the belly you make a move!
Out!
Your party will probably run you for Mayor for this.
Scarsi tried a getaway...
Turk, of the District
Attorney's office got him.
What a break for the
Sunday papers!
But why shoot him?
So that Government of the professionals, by the professionals, and for the professionals, shall not perish from the earth.
What were the events leading up to the tragedy?
That'll do.
You kids can run along now.
Are you going, Helen?
No, kid, I'm not going your way.
So it's dog eat dog to the last ditch, eh, Captain?
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
You and me both, Policeman.
What now, Captain?
I'd like a little sleep... But by the time I get through with the Coroner the rest of the public servants...
...it'll be time to go to Mass.
THE END
A Turner Classic Movies Presentation in association with
The University of Nevada, Las Vegas
New edition produced by
Jeffery Masinosed
Music Score Composed and Arranged by
Robert Israel
Performed by
The Robert Israel Orchestra
Conducted by
Rober Israel
Recording Session Directors:
Vit Muzik and Vladislav Kvapil
Telecine:
David Blosk, Ascdent Madia
Digital Restoration services provided by
ADS (Advanced Digital Services, Inc.)
ADS Restoration Team:
Tom Sehenuk - Ariel Tiscsay - Gabriel McKail
The Hands of Orlac
Beloved, In one day and one night I will again be with you.  I will hold you in my arms ... my hands will run over your hair
I will feel your body tremble under my hands
Orlac's concert 
Madam, it is 9 o'clock and the train arrives at 11
To Montgeron
He is alive!
It is 6:30, Professor.  Vasseur will be executed at 6 o'clock, and 8 minutes later the car will bring the body to the clinic.
A train accident.  Mr. Orlac is severely injured.
And yet there is hope. There is damage at the base of the skull, where we will operateà only à only his hands
The hands ... holy God ... the hands ...
Save his hands ... his hands are his life ....
Save his hands ... his hands are more important than his life.
Save his hands ...
I will try.
After only a short time, you can come home ... and sun, light and many flowers will greet you, when you come.
We will remove your bandages - a little at a time.  Today you will see your face again.
Your eyes - how I love you ... your hair ... and your hands ... your beautiful, dear hands ...
There ... his head ... doesn't he see my hands?
"Is he laughing?"
Now ... he is so strong!
Tell me, what are under these bandages?  What secret do they hide?
Well, then, in God's name, we will reveal the secret.
Can these hands ever play again?
The spirit rules the hands ... nature and a strong will can do anything.
Tomorrow ... back tomorrow! 
I will wait here ... his first kiss and the first stroke of his hands.
The last night.
Your hands were not saved ...
Dr. Serral gave you different ones.
The hands of the executed murderer Vasseur.
Is it true?  Do I have the hands of the murderer Vasseur?  
How much longer?
In half an hour.  No, only 30 minutes.
These hands will never strike a man again.  
How much longer
I love you ... I love you ...
Do you have the paper for January 15?
The murderer Vasseur before his judges.
Vasseur denied the act ... but the fingerprints which were found gave the real evidence.
The dagger, which was stuck into the heart of the old racketeer, bore the same X mark on the handle. 
Also, the dagger bore Vasseur's unmistakable fingerprints.  
The evidence was so clear that he received the death penalty.
I feel it also go out ... the arms spread ... until then in the soul ... cold, terrible, grim.
Twisted - twisted hands!
I don't want to save you?  I will not come ... not my ... no more ... 
I cannot any more ... you are coming to kill ... . but I will not follow your terrible orders any more ... no more
Don't come any closer to me!
Go away ... I will not listen to you any longer.
...Debauch your hands...
Don't mix ... away with your hands ... such murderer's hands ...
Take away your hands.  I don't want these terrible hands.
Creditors
Only wait a short time ... one month ...
I know it ... You demand blood  ... Crimes ... Murder ...
Only one week!
Men don't just control the hands ...
The head, the heart control the body ..., also the hands ...
Until tomorrow!
My hat and my coat ...
I am going to my husband's father.  He is rich ... he can help ... if he will ...
Don't go there ... he is an evil man ... he hates all men and even more so your husband ...
I can't leave anyone to him ...
At the least everyone from ... there
Mr. Orlac - you know, what bad luck has happened to him
Mr. Orlac - Paul cannot play now.  
So we are in need.  But Paul doesn't know ... help us.
He is your son ... your flesh and blood ... will you let us be ground in to the earth ...
Yes, I would like to see it!  I hate him ...
Mr. Orlac must himself go to see his father ... today!
How will madam pay ...
Beloved, yet one day and one night, and then I will be with you again.  I will hold you in my arms ... my ...
That was ... once ... my handwriting
After one day and one night, 
Go to your father ... today ... he must help us ... we can't go on ...
He refused to help ... and I have begged him so ... he is not a good man, your father ... he is evil.  I fear him..
Murder!
The murderer Vasseur's dagger!
The fingerprints of the criminal Vasseur!
Your sister is very ill ... come right away, if you want to see her while she is still alive ... come today ...
Vasseur's handwriting!
I do not know what secret he is going to give us.  
Vasseur has been dead for years, but his hands still live.
Paul Orlac, you are your father's heir.  
You will bring me a million tomorrow.  At this time!
Money?  Money?  
And therefore you follow me awake and in my dreams?
Why?
For my hands!
Who are you?
I am Vasseur, who was executed on July 13th.
The experiment that Professor Serral performed with your hands his assistant made off with my head.
If I don't get the million tomorrow at this time 
I will go to the State Prosecutor and tell him who your father's murderer is.
Who is the murderer?
You are ... Paul Orlac!
These fingerprints, which are clearly visible are the fingerprints of Vasseur.
And who has those fingers now - you, Paul Orlac!
The letter, which passed through all the servants in the house, was written by the hand of Vasseur, and this hand is now - your hand!
The dagger, with which the murder was done is Vasseur's dagger with the X.  
Your maid will swear, that she saw you with it - in your hand..
Perhaps you did not do the murder - but you cannot deny ....
What is  happening to me?  Am I crazy?
Won't you tell me what is bothering you?
I have the feeling, that these hands are drawing me ... to crime ....
I must bring him the money.
You will tell the State Prosecutor everything ...
Who will believe me?
They will believe you - as I believe you.
I go in a free man.
Wait, perhaps, and we will have news for the evening paper.
It is odd, but I don't know, whether I am experiencing reality or a dream.
It is odd, but I don't know, whether I am experiencing reality or a dream.
A stranger.
He was then executed ... I have seen with my own eyes the work of the guillotine on a neck.
He was then executed ... I have seen with my own eyes the work of the guillotine on a neck.
Mr. Orlac, we thank you for your evidence ...
Go this evening, bring the money with you to the stranger,
And we will follow you.
Someone well known to us - Mr. Nera, at last.  Assistant to Professor Serral,
One of the least talented crooks in the world.
I am also a blackmailer.  But, you are searching for the murderer?
Haven't you considered, that the murderer has Vasseur's hands ... I don't have those hands.
Haven't you considered, that the murderer has Vasseur's hands ... I don't have those hands.
I can tell you who has those hands.
Mr. Orlac, I arrest you!
Mr. Orlac is not guilty - Nera is the murderer.
Keep silent!
Explain the fingerprints of the executed Vasseur!
Nera was Vasseur's friend ...
He secretly made imprints of Vasseur's fingerprints 
And then he had rubber gloves made ... with Vasseur's fingerprints. 
And so he killed the elder Orlac ...
And so he killed the old racketeer and then made it look as if Vasseur had done it.  Vasseur is not guilty of the death.
If Vasseur was not guilty ... then my hands are pure ...
The first professional film by
Josef von Sternberg was unusually bold both subject matter and technical skill.
It framed the style of all gangster films to come.
A great city in the dead of night...
...streets lonely, moon-flooded...
...buildings empty as the cliff-dwellings of a forgotten age -
"The great Bull Weed - closing another bank account."
"That's what makes bums and squealers!"
"I may be a bum, but I am no squealer.
I might say, sir, that I am a
Rolls-Royce for silence."
"All right, Rolls Royce - I'll give you a chance to prove that."
"Keep your eyes off her!
What do you think I'm here for?"
"Watch me show that dame what I think of money."
"Buck Mulligan's looking for trouble."
"How'd you like to pick up ten bucks?"
"Pick it up or I'll send you to the morgue!"
"Give me that gun!"
"Rolls Royce, meet Feathers - my girl."
"How long since you had the body washed and polished, Rolls Royce?"
"If you don't want Mulligan to bump you off, Professor, you'd better stick with me."
"With pleasure, sir."
"Come on, let's drift!"
"Can I possibly be of any assistance?"
"The city is yours, Kid - what'll you have?"
"Attila, the Hun, at the gates of Rome."
"Who's Attila? The leader of some wop gang?"
"You were born two thousand years too late. You can't get away with your stuff - nowadays."
"They'll never get me!"
"I'm either a missionary or a sucker, but I'm going to put you on your feet."
"What could I do to help you?"
"Help me? Nobody helps me! I help other people!"
"I'm going to bury that guy while these lilies are still fresh!"
But Buck should have used wax flowers, for long after his lilies had faded - -
"You don't want that junk. It's too vulgar!"
"Why, it's the old hideaway!
Why did you bring me here?"
"Don't you know it's wrong to steal?"
"Look at him - cost me a thousand - looks like a million!"
"He's read every book in the case - he likes to read!"
"Let's have the key, Professor."
"A perfect getaway - - through our warehouse to the next block.
And nitro couldn't blow those 
         doors!"
"No, thanks. I've got to go out on important business."
"The police all know Mulligan's
Special. Plant the little flower where it will do the most good."
"I told you that guy had brains."
"You stay here. You may have the brains, but I've got the guts."
"What were you before Bull Weed picked you up?"
"A lawyer sometimes - a drunkard always ... what does it matter?"
"A woman, I suppose."
"I'm not interested in women."
"The Captain wants to see you."
"Say - what is this - a pinch?"
"Somebody framed me!"
"Framed you? Since when are you a picture, Buck?"
"You've got the wrong guy this time.
I'll be out in twenty minutes."
"Is this why you're called Feathers?"
"I wear feathers all over."
"What were you before
Bull Weed - er - found you?"
"I thought you weren't interested in women!"
"Bull Weed's our best friend, isn't he?"
"This is the first time in a long while that I've felt ashamed."
"Well, I planted that flower. They've probably pinched Mulligan by now."
"See you at the Ball tonight?"
"You've got to show. Everybody with a police record will be there!"
"Besides, I'm going to make
Feathers queen of the ball."
"- be there! Them's orders!"
The underworld's annual armistice - when, until dawn, rival gangsters...
...bury the hatchet and park the machine-gun.
"Check your gats!"
"Vote for Feathers!"
"Throwing away any ten-dollar bills tonight?"
"Who said you could dance with her - with-out asking me?"
"Our friend has gone back to his booze again!"
"- but I don't want you to drink!"
"Please .... don't!"
"You're Bull Weed's girl - aren't you?"
Elsewhere the night deepened into silence and rest. But here the brutal din...
...of cheap music - booze - hate
- lust - made a devil's carnival.
"F-F-Feathershelected!"
"You tell her now."
"The committee is waiting to crown you Queen o' the Ball."
"You needn't worry about your sweetie. He's out - - for the night!"
"Before sentencing you, I declare to you and your kind...
...that no man, or band of men, can defeat the Law."
"Others have tried it before, and,
I regret to say, will try it again -
- but their fate must be the same as yours."
"All your life you have dealt with the Law as an enemy. And now...
...by a final deed of violence, you have compelled it to end your career."
"I sentence you to hang by the neck until you are dead - -"
"- and may God have mercy on your soul!"
"How are we going to help him now?"
"Don't worry. They haven't hanged him yet."
The Law took no chances. Bull Weed was isolated from his world.
No messages delivered, no visitors admitted.
"- before sunrise tomorrow, to hang the said Bull Weed by the neck until he is dead."
"Any last request?"
"Tell Paloma to bring me the juiciest steak in Dreamland."
"The only one who'll see Bull is Paloma - when he brings him his last meal."
"Here's the plan - the hearse will come to the outer court...
...an hour before the hanging -"
"- and you wait in your car at
Three Corners Road, for
Bull to join you."
"You have Paloma tell Bull -
I'll attend to the hearse."
"Does that mean any danger - for you?"
"The police will only see me buying two tickets at the railroad station -"
"Then they'll be sure Bull is leaving town with me."
"Then I won't see you again?"
"This is good-bye."
"If I lose you, it's my finish.
I love you so -"
"I can't let you go - !"
"We have a chance to lead a decent life. If we get Bull out - we're his again!"
"We can't double-cross him - - we owe him everything."
"We do love each other, don't we?"
"We can't do this - - we couldn't be happy if we betrayed him!"
"You see - you taught me how to be decent."
"Rolls Royce says watch for
 the hearse - two o'clock...
...The gang will be in it - - they'll cover the guards and spring you!"
"That's a lie! Rolls Royce doesn't want me to get out!"
"You've got him wrong, Bull - that hearse will come crashing through like a tank!"
"On the level, Ed - has Rolls
Royce or Feathers ever really tried to see me?"
"Maybe I hadn't ought to tell you - but the whole town knows how they're carrying on."
"Ed, is there time for another game of checkers?"
"You hate to leave the old burg - don't you?"
"Do you think Rolls Royce is still in town?"
"What do you care? You'll be hanging in an hour."
"There's one guy I'd like to get before I hang."
"You're in a tight place now."
"It's your move."
"The plan went wrong - the guards got wise, somehow."
"It's all over with him by now."
"Extra! Bull Weed escapes!"
"What's the extra about?"
"Nothing - just a boob breaking jail!"
"So you've brought the police, too. You little rat!"
"Now you can wait and take what you framed up for me!"
"Bull - listen - we were on the level - we tried to get you out -"
"He sure cinched my finish - he's got those keys!"
"We've got the Bull cornered at his old hangout!"
"If you're waiting for Bull Weed, you'll have a long wait."
"They'll get us both in a few minutes, Bull. Why should I lie to you now?"
"If I could get my hands
 on that lousy skunk...
...I'd go back and
let 'em hang me!"
"I'm sorry things went wrong - but there's still time - for you - to get away!"
"Now you see - - how much he double-crossed you!"
"I've been all wrong, Feathers -
I know it now - I've been wrong all the way -"
"And all this got you was another hour!"
"There was something I had to find out - - and that hour was worth more to me than my whole life."
The film, HAUNTED CASTLE (Schloss Vogeloed), was restored in 2002, using the following material: an original negative of the Federal Film Archive, Berlin and a celluloid, tinted copy, with Portuguese intertitles from the Fundacao Cinemateca Brasileira, preserved in the Federal Film Archive in Koblenz.  Most intertitles were kept from the original negative and have been extended for reconstruction.
The missing intertitles were reconstructed using the script and a list of titles Decla-Bioscop filed on 31 March 1921.
The new intertitles used the original format
And bear the logo FWMS.  The work was done in collaboration with the Federal Archive -Film Archive, Berlin / Koblenz and Friedrich-Wilhelm-Murnau Stiftung.
The reconstruction was done in collaboration with the Berlin Federal Film / Koblenz archives and Friedrich-Wilhelm-Murnau Stiftung, Wiesbaden.
Vogel Castle.  The revelation of a secret.
5 Acts
Based on a story by Rudolf Stratz. published in the journal "Berliner Illustrierte Zeitung"
Adapted by Carl Mayer
Direction - F. W. Murnau
Tailored menswear from the S. Adam House.
Schloss Vogeloed.
First Act
In the Vogel Castle after the rain
It has been raining all through the hunting days of October.
The lord of the castle.
The Guests.
"Count Oetsch!"
"You...  Count Oetsch?"
"You forgot to invite me?"
The Retired County Court Judge
"Rumor has it that he treacherously killed his own brother three years ago!
He thus became the only owner of all the inheritance ... "
The Frightened Gentleman
"Yet, all those who were able to follow the trial at the time, are convinced that he is the murderer."
"I would remind you once more that I am expecting this very night the widow of your brother as my guest!"
"The widow of the victim?
The widow of the victim.  She married Baron Safferstätt a year ago.
"I would like to spare all of us the situation... of the Baroness's meeting you here, my lord!"
"So, you are staying!  But, you will take all responsibility for what happens."
Waiting for the Baroness.
"They may arrive at any moment, and Count Oetsch is inside..."
"So, you pretend to have learned the art of prophecy in India?"
"Will you then tell us whether, considering that this is a hunting party...
"Whether one shot will be fired!"
"There will be ONE shot ...!"
"...  Maybe ... even two?"
"Oetsch is here!"
"You will understand that - under these circumstances
- we cannot stay with you..."
"No, you cannot leave!  Do you know who else will come here to see you?"
"Father Faramund, from Rome!"
"Father Faramund ... from Rome?"
"Yes, I almost had forgotten it in all this excitement!
I must go at once and get his letter.  I'll bring the letter to you soon."
"Father - Faramund?"
"You do not want to show me the door?"
"She will stay!  She will wait for Father Faramund!"
... it fills me with great joy to know that the wife of my late relative,
... will be invited into your home.
Blessed are the circumstances that bring me back to the north, after being so long in Rome.
I shall arrive in the coming days at Schloss Vogel, to meet with all of you in person, my dear friends ...
End of the First Act.
Schloss Vogeloed.
Second Act.
The next day - a surprise: The Sun!
"Finally!"
Weather forecast: Today, sun.  No risk of rain.
"Are you not coming hunting with us?"
"I only go hunting in rain and storm!"
"Tell me, why is your husband always so quiet? "
But, alas, only fifteen minutes later ...
The day.
"His Reverence, Father Faramund, has just announced his arrival for tonight."
"Look, the adventurous Count Oetsch is actually going hunting in such beastly weather."
"He should know why he is shunning the arrival of his relative, the Father!"
"I have ... many things ... to talk about ... tonight ... with the Father ...!"
Nightfall.
"If the Baroness permits it, I would like to present her my compliments tonight."
"Now our house is truly blessed."
"Whatever happens,
Do not stop loving me!  "
"The Baroness will see His Reverence now."
"Tell me, dear child, tell me ...!
"How strange, Your Reverence... this meeting."
"...for all these years I have fought with the idea to speak my mind to you, Your Reverence - the only man...
"who was a friend and relative of my late husband..."
"It has been four years now..."
End of the Second Act
Schloss Vogeloed.
Third Act
"Our marriage was - at first - like just one continuous day of happiness."
"So we lived for months in blinding happiness. "
"One day, he went away ..."
"He returned a few weeks later and ... He was someone else.
He buried himself in his writings ... sacred books ... "
"Believe me, dear child, true happiness lies only in the renunciation of everything worldly."
"He wanted a saint ...
And he wanted to see in me only the qualities of a saint ..."
"So for months ... I froze ... the purer he became, my attachment to the mundane seemed more terrible..."
"I was craving ... to do something evil ... wanting something evil ... "
"That's when I met Baron Safferstätt ...
"My husband wanted to give away all his possessions, and distribute his assets to the poor, and that brought many conflicts with his brother ... until, one night, a complete breakup occurred."
"The next night ... something terrible happened ...
My husband ... was shot dead."
"I cannot continue ... not now ... maybe tomorrow ... "
"Will you please excuse me for today.
I will pay my respects tomorrow to the owners of the castle.
A conversation about hunting.
"Would you also believe that I once killed a lion?
Evening.
"Please ask His Reverence to come see me!"
A quarter of an hour later.
"No, nobody left through here!"
"We looked all over the castle!"
"This is becoming very sinister!"
An hour later.  No one has found a trace of the Father.
"A crime?  Maybe ... Committed by ... Count Oetsch!"
Dreams.
"Enough is enough!  Tomorrow I'm leaving!"
But the assistant in the kitchen dreams of what happened in the last few hours ...
End of the Third Act.
Schloss Vogeloed.
Fourth Act
The morning of the third day.
"So, try to understand!  Suddenly there are important affairs to be attended to!"
"They don't feel quite at ease any more in my house."
"I have informed the authorities of my suspicions about this Count Oetsch...!"
A happy man.
"She is so strange... she doesn't say a thing, even not about the Father who disappeared?"
At noon.
"Have you ever murdered anyone?"
"What ... did you say ... that?"
"Gentlemen!
Why not let me finish speaking?"
"Last night I had a dream!"
"Count Oetsch!  The present atmosphere in my house does not seem appropriate for that kind of joke!"  "
"Believe me, my investigating eye is experienced!"
"...and yet, Count Oetsch is involved in the Father's disappearance."
"He is acting so superior in order to conceal his new crime."
"He will have to apologize for his inappropriate joke in the presence of all the guests!"
"You absolutely have to speak to him.
"You already know everything, Sir!"
"Perhaps you also know who is suspected of causing the Father's disappearance?" causing the Father's disappearance?"
"Me!"
"But, I know even more, Mr. Ex-Justice.
I also know how to discover secrets."
"To give you an example, I am now going to give away one of the Baron's secrets."
"Count Oetsch!  If you know other people's secrets, you are not allowed to disclose them in front of everybody." to disclose them in front of everybody."
"My compliments for your opinion!
I just want to whisper a few words into Baron Safferstätt's ears."
"No. ... no ... I am ... not a murderer."
"What are these suggestions?"
"Do you perhaps suddenly accuse the Baron of the assassination of your brother?"
"Perhaps?"
"I will question Baron Safferstätt."
"Today I'll find out!"
He murdered my husband ...!
He shot his own brother during an argument!
End of the Fourth Act.
Schloss Vogeloed.
Fifth Act
Half an hour later.
"What do you know of that day, my dear - speak!"
"My Lord, the Count, preferred to run away!""
"And so I tell you, he has the disappearance of the Father also on his conscience."
"Father Faramund... has returned again!"
"Yesterday I was seeking comfort, and you did not come!
- Today - I will make my confession to you!"
"Because you, as a priest, must keep silent!"
"We must not do anything now!
The events of these last days will now probably clear up!"
"A few days before the murder of my husband ... "
"I am appalled at such holiness ...!"
"I'd like to see something evil ... something very very evil!"
"A murder ... !"
"Baron Safferstätt, burning with passion for me, had terribly misunderstood me!"
"He killed my husband!"
"He confessed to me two days later."
"Then I realized I was guilty. "
"The Count was arrested.  If he had been convicted ... "
"...  We would have been poisoned ... to prove his innocence ... "
"But, he was not convicted!"
"Thus accursed, both of us!
Fearing life!  Fearing death.  "
Tied together by our guilt!"
We got married!  That is our marriage!"
"So we became two comrades!  And today I have saved him!!"
"I implicated Count Oetsch in the murder of his own brother!"
"I have followed my destiny so far!"
"Now you know everything!  And you must remain silent!"
"...  I ... I understand!"
"Act like a man!"
"I ... was ... not happy ..."
"A shot ...?"
Evening peace.
"His struggles are over!"
"I, who was innocently accused, had always guessed..."
"So, some way had to be found for me finally to clear myself from this ignominious suspicion!"
"So, I arrived before Father Faramund, who was also expected at the castle!"
Thus I came to the castle to await Father Faramund!"
"We have to beg your pardon for so many things!"
Nightfall.
"I am Father Faramond of Rome."
The End
The story, "Vogel Castle," by Rudolf Stratz was published by Ullstein.
The novel by Felix Holländer, "Der Eid des Stephan Hull" 
Script - Leo Birinski 
Photography - Scenography 
Director 
In "Luna Park" in Hamburg 
Boss, owner of the booth 
The steamer "Berta Maria" docked at the port of Hamburg that evening.  
Boss and his companion do a number together.
We had a gypsy on board with the company. Everyone left at the last port,  ... but they abandoned this ... girl. 
You say that she dances well? 
In this group, we all do, too. 
She stays! 
It has a very strange name. We call our ship the "Berta Maria" 
Are not you tired of this monotonous life? 
How much better would it be to do our acrobatic act and travel the world
I know I'm a burden. I know I try but I fail. 
If you're jealous of that girl, tomorrow we will tell her go. 
It looks as if I am.  We're not married. 
I will do whatever you want.  
The show is over. 
You've finished! - Do you understand? Completely, forever! 
I leave tonight. Will you come with me? 
The Berlin Wintergarten.  The new acts program. 
The Artinelli Brothers 
Sir: The Artinellis await you in their study. 
Unfortunately I must terminate my contract. My brother is seriously injured. 
Klerck: try to obtain a replacement quickly. 
I found an excellent number.  Boss is back at the plaza. 
Are you kidding? I cannot associate with such a low-class acrobat. 
"... but if you saw .... his companion ... " 
The famous Artinellis want to sign you ... if you made it our debut. We would do the "Wintergarten" 
Joining the Artinellis is a good omen.
Not only is he a great artist, but he is also an interesting man. 
Artinelli has invited all the artists to the Wintergarten to celebrate our success. 
A souvenir of our debut 
END OF PART ONE 
PART TWO
Artinelli - And where is he? 
He is still sleeping 
Our success has enabled us to go to America. 
Is this your way of thanking me?
Mine should be ... It was I who has made you successful ... I even took you to the booths at the fairs.
You're as lucky in cards as you are in love. 
I am sorry, but tonight I cannot be at the Reunion of the Artist's Circle 
What a pity! I have never seen such a party. 
If Mr. Artinelli wants to accompany you... 
I was surprised myself ... at the party in Linderpark ... 
That night, the fabulous trio will perform, on the night of honor, 
The exciting "triple somersault". 
Tell Berta Maria not to be late again tonight. 
I have invited my friends from Hamburg. 
Pick it up and defend yourself! 
I will count to three ... 
Where is the nearest police station?
The mother of your son has made a request to the Ministry of Justice and requested that you be pardoned to be with your son
... I do not want my request to be ignored.  You should return to our son, and forget everything that has happened 
Every day he asks for his father.  I tell him he is in a distant land ... 
The pardon has been granted. Make certain that you are grateful for this generous act. 
END
Well, we finished earlier than Ike and I expected.
- Are you going anywhere?
- No, I don't think so.
So the next time, I changed to another tailor, but found out that he was no better than the first.
I bought some pretty expensive cloth and took it to him and you should've seen the mess he made of it
I told him I wouldn't pay for the thing, but the trouble is, he's got my material.
Well, I left the suit with him and it's been there ever since.
- Good evening Miss White.
And how are you?
- I'm all right, thanks.
- I haven't seen you for a long time.
Have you come to take Frank for a walk.
Yes
- That's right.
- Well, I must push along.
- Good-night.
- Good-night Frank.
- Well dear.
- I've been waiting here half an hour for you.
- Good-night Sean.
- Good-night Frank.
Good-night George.
- Sorry sir. Full up. You'll have more room upstairs.
- Goaaannn.
I think I told you, there's more room upstairs!
Sorry Sir. Full up here. There's more room up...HEY!
Frank. I've lost one of my gloves.
I think I left it at the other table.
- Is this it?
- Yes, thanks.
Thought so, there's a hole in two fingers.
Would you like a pair of nail scissors for Christmas?
- Funny, aren't you?
- Oh Miss, Miss!
It's no good being impatient, you'll have to wait your turn.
What's the matter with you today?
Got out of bed the wrong side?
-I don't like waiting about for you.
Oh, don't you? Oh, Miss!
Do you expect the entire machinary of Scotland Yard to be held up to please you?
You and your Scotland Yard
If it weren't for Edgar Wallace nobody'd ever heard of it.
Funny, aren't you?
Anyway, what's the hurry? We're only going to the pictures, we've got all evening.
- Well, I don't think I want to go to the pictures.
- Oh, and why not?
-I've seen everything worth seeing.
- You haven't seen "Fingerprints".
I'd like to see that.
Still it's about Scotland Yard! might be amusing. They're bound to get all the details wrong.
I don't see why. I did hear they'd got a real criminal to direct it.
- So as to be on the safe side.
- Oh, oh Miss!
Oh, blast!
Well, I've ordered.
- I'll go to the pictures with you, if you like.
- uh, changed your mind.
Have you got an ashtray Miss? I never seem to get an ashtray where I sit.
Frank, Frank. I've changed my mind again.
- About what?
- About going to the pictures.
- You mean you don't want to go again?
- No, not particularly.
- Why not?
- I don't know , I just don't want to.
- Isn't that enough?
- No, it's not enough … oy, Miss!
- What are you going to do?
- I'm going to get the bill.
I'm about fed up with you. lf you don't want to go, I do.
- Oh all right, I'll come too.
- oy, Miss!
Oh, don't let's have a row. I'm sorry.
I know I've been rather beastly today.
- Miss!
- Frank, I've said I'm sorry.
Here, that will cover it.
Hold on. I live here.
Do you? Then you needn't come any further.
Oh, no now I said that I'd see you home, and I will.
But I'm only just around the corner.
Do you know Whites? The newsagent?
- Yes?
In the Kings road?
Yes.
- That's my father.
No!
Yes.
Now isn't that fine?
Then we're neighbors.
- Have you ever seen an artist's studio?
- No, I'd love to.
- Come up and see mine.
- Oh, I can't now. Another time.
- Why not now?
- Why, it's so late.
- Are you frightened?
- No, course not.
Then why not now?
No, really. Thanks awfully.
I must be getting home.
- You are frightened.
- I'm certainly not … take more'n a man to frighten me.
Yes...that's what I thought....at first.
- What is the time?
- Not very late.
- Come on. What's the harm.
Oh, no harm really. Besides, I always think a girl knows instinctively when she can trust a man.
Yes, of course she does.
Do you trust me?
- Alice? May I call you Alice?
- If you like.
Come on.
- Oh Mr. Crewe. Before you go in, could I...?
- Excuse me, miss.
No!
That chap's nothing but a sponger.
Always pestering people up and down this street.
Well, here we are.
I'm right up there. Top!
Excuse me a minute, will you?
I say, I'm awfully sorry. I won't be a minute. You start walking up.
That's all right.
Oh good evening. Sorry to disturb you.
About this note, did he leave any message?
No, he wouldn't leave any message.
-Have you seen him before.
- Yes, the same gent what called here several times.
Thanks very much.
Goodnight.
Bit of a climb, wasn't it?
What a lovely room. Did you do it all yourself?
Hardly. I say, do you feel cold?
I think I'll light the fire.
- I say. That's good, isn't it?
- Oh that? Yes, that's a new one, just finished.
- How do you hold this?
- What?
Oh, that.
That's easy. I'll show you.
Oh Lord, not like that. Let me show you.
You take this and hold it like that, you see...Then you get the brush and hold it there. You try.
- Like this?
- Yes.
- Oh, look what I've done.
- Ooo, yes
- Draw something Alice.
- Shall I?
- Yes.
Rotten.
Never mind. We'll finish this masterpiece together.
Now you hold the brush. Steady.
There we are.
You are awful.
Wait a minute.
There. Already a pick ahead of me.
I'll go and get those drinks....Right you are.
I say, how would I do for one of your models?
That's an idea.
- Let's see it on you.
- Do you mean, put it on?
Yes, why not?
- Oh, it's so strong!
- Go on.....
Oh no, I don't think so. Besides I have to go home soon.
I see.
Pity. I would have like to have sketched you in it.
- Would you have really?
- Yes, but perhaps you are right. It wouldn't suit you.
I bet it would.
- Shall I really try it on?
- Yes, will you?
- All right.
- Good.
- Think this will be big enough for me.
- What?
- I said, do you think this will be big enough for me.
- Yes, I think so.
- Go on, play something.
- Wait a minute, how does that thing go?
I know.
And that's a song about you my dear.
You haven't said how you like it.
Marvellous.
- I can't do it up.
-Wait a minute. Where is this trouble?
- I can't do it all up.
- Never mind.
- How do I look?
- Wait a minute, it isn't quite right.
Put your hands there.
- I better go.
- I say.
I've got it.
- Please give it to me.
- All right, come on out.
There it is.
Don't be silly Alice. Don't be silly.
No, no, let me go! Let me go!
No, no....
- Who did you say it was?
- Mr. Crewe!
- Mr. Who?
- No! Crewe, I tell you! It's horrible!
- All right. Don't you worry. I'll send round straight away. What number did you say?
Seven or eleven?
- What?
- 31, I said.
- No, no, 31.
- Ah good. Just take a look around, will you?
- Right you are sir.
- Alice, wake up.
Anyone'd think you hadn't been asleep all night.
What do you think!? There's been a murder last night, round the corner.
They tell me the police are round there now.
We'll all be murdered in our beds, soon, I'm sure we will.
'cause I don't  think the police are what they were.
Morning, Alice. 'eard about the murder?
- Yes, I heard.
- Do you remember Frank's telephone number dear?
- No, but here, you'll find it in the book.
- I mean, some murders are so different to others aren't they?
Pushed his lady friends under the water when they was having a bath
What was his name? you remember?
I think that was ever so beastly.
It gave me the shivers.
After I read about it, I didn't dare 'ave a bath for a month.
An' for weeks after that I only used to 'ave a rinse down.
What was his name? You remember,
Smith, wasn't it?
What's wrong Alice? You don't look very cheerful this morning.
-You do look a little bit peeky, I must say.
- Dad, Alice, breakfast.
Good-morning, Mr. White.
- Good-morning, Sir, good-morning.
Breakfast!!!
I couldn't look bak'n in the face after what happened last night and under our very noses.
Mind you, I don't think, meself, it's all together the police's fault.
What I mean is, they 'ave to wink at some things.
I mean it's one thing to buy chocolates out of hours, but it's quite another to stick a knife into a gentleman.
I must say I feel the same way about that too.
A good, clean, honest whack over the 'ead with a brick is one thing....
...something British about that. But knives?
No. Knives is not right.
I must say that's what I think and that's what I'll keep.
Whatever the provocation,
I could never use a knife.
Now, mind you a knife is a difficult thing to handle.
I mean any knife.... knife.... knife.... a butcher's knife!
- Alice, cut us a bit of bread, will you?
Knife.... knife.... of a knife.... 
...you come up against a knife!
I mean, in Chelsea you mustn't use a..
KNIFE!
- Dear, you ought to be more careful.
You might have cut somebody with that.
Customer.....
- No news of the murder yet?
- No, not yet.
- Thank you. Good-morning.
- Well, I must be going. I can't stand here gossiping all day like some people.
Chatter, chatter, chatter.... give
'em a chance to talk about other people's business, and they'll take it.
- What's the matter Alice?
Had another row with Frank?
- Another customer Alice.
- Good morning, Alice.
- Dear, it's Frank. Hello Frank.
- I say, have you 'eard about our murder?
- Yes, they put me on it.
- Did they? That's good isn't it?
Well, I hope you get him Frank!
- If they do, that will mean promotion, won't it?
- D'you reck'n you'll get him soon?
- Well, uh, I don't know.
-Well, I came in here to phone.
- That's all right.
-  Alice? Come here a minute will you?
- Well I must be going now. Good-bye,
Mrs. White, good-bye,  Mr. White.
Now you two.
- Sssshhhh.....Be careful...
What happened last night?
Why don't you tell me?
Look, you know where I found that?
It's the only piece of evidence that you were there. I'm keeping it back at present.
For God's sake, say something!
- If you're not using the phone...uh, may I?
I, uh, I want to get on to Scotland Yard.
- I say.
- I want the best cigar in the shop.
Certainly sir. Perhaps you'd like to telephone while I get it down?
- No thanks, that can wait.
- What does he mean?
- Very well sir. Now, uh, what sort of a cigar would you like sir? I've got..
I' ve got 'enry Clay or Corona, Corona?
- Corona.
- Certainly sir.
- Any news of the murder.
- No, nothing yet.
- Have you heard anything?
- No, no news.
- Are you, uh, quite sure?
- What the hell business is it of yours, anyway?
- You know, I looked everywhere for that other glove last night.
But, of course, you detectives are better trained at finding these things.
- Ah, here we are sir.
- Excuse me, will you?
Thank you.
Oh, they look good.
- They ought to. I've had ' em for years.
Is it all right sir?
- Yes, I thought the top was broken, but it's all right.
- Have you a light?
- Yes, here you are.
- How silly of me, hadn't noticed it.
- Uh.. all right sir?
- Oh, ha, of course, sorry.
Extraordinary actually...
I can't quite...
I say... would you pay for this?
Is this gentleman a friend of yours, Frank?
Well, we're not exactly friends. At least not yet.
But we're going to do a little business together, aren't we, Frank?
I'll look after the shop, Father.
You go and finish your paper.
What for?
Oh....all right my dear, all right.
Rather unfortunate that poor man died around the corner last night.
Look here you....
Perhaps it's rather fortunate, that your little secret only came into the hands of a man like me.
D'you know, there are some men who would make money out of a thing like that.
What a chance for blackmail.
Oh, oh that's awful.
I couldn't do a thing like that.
Morning, Miss. Two of each there.
By the way. You're a detective.
Let me give you a tip.
Don't wave important clues in telephone boxes. They've got glass doors.
You know, uh, detectives in glass houses shouldn't wave clues.
Come on, out with it. What do you want?
What do I want?
Oooooh, well, uh...
Couldn't we discuss that over breakfast?
Mother this is a friend of Frank's. Mr.?
- Tracy.
- Pleased to meet you.
- Mr. Tracy, would you like something to eat?
- Thank-you.
- Lovely weather, we're having.
- Yes, splendid.
- Who did you say that man was?
- He's a very important friend of Frank's.
I'll get the breakfast for him.
- Here! Aren't we rude?
Won't you take my chair?
- Oh, thanks.
- Did you see, or hear anything during the night?
- No, sir.
- What time did you go to bed?
- About half past ten, sir.
- Did you write this?
- Yes.
- How old would you say this man was.
- I'm afraid I couldn't tell you, sir, he had his hat on.
- Did you notice anything particular about his clothes?
- Well, uh, he had a black hat and a loose kind of collar.
'nd a tie and that's about all, I think.
- Was he dark or fair?
- Well, you couldn't say he was a blond and you couldn't say he was a brunette. He was a bit of both, you know, kind of mousey.
- Anything else?
- No.
- Except when he spoke to you, he went like this.
- All right.
Give me records.
- Well, bring him along. Let's hear what he's got to say.
- Understood?
-Yes, sir.
- Right, get along with it..
- That'll do to go on with.
- How much longer is that man going to stay? Don't tell me he'll be here to dinner.
- Don't make things awkward mother.
It means a lot to to me and Frank.
- Well, I don't see why they should carry on their business in my parlour.
- I'll take it.
- Very well.
- But I don't like that man and the sooner he goes the better.
You are very clever.
I can see that all right.
- Frank? Just a minute will you?
A pal of yours at the Yard, said he thought you might be here.
- Oh, all right.
Hello?
Yeah. Yes.
Well, I thought you wouldn't mind if...
What?
Who?
- Any news Frank?
- Alice, lock that door.
As you were saying ... rather unfortunate the way that poor man round the corner, uh, died last night.
On the other hand, perhaps it's fortunate. For us, that is... that a suspicious looking man, with a criminal record, was seen hanging around the place.
- You....
Look here, don't you try and swing this thing on me. That won't get you anywhere.
- Also rather unfortunate, that Scotland
Yard, are at present looking for that man.
- I say, Frank!
- Just a minute Alice.
- But there's one thing you seem to have forgotten....
- Oh, and what's that?
- Before we get to any hanging,
I shall have quite a lot to say.
And the first thing I shall say is, that she was there too.
- Oh, you will, will you?
Isn't there one thing you seem to have forgotten, that our word's as good as, or perhaps a bit better...
...than that of a jailbird.
So we'll face that when the time comes.
Meanwhile, we'll just sit quietly here until the squad van arrives.
- That surprises you doesn't it?
- No, it doesn't surprise me in the least.
When it comes, the surprise won't be for me.
- Very well then, we are both satisfied.
- Yes, we're both satisfied.
It's my word, against hers.
- Frank, you can't do this.
- Why not?
- Well, because...
- Now, now, don't interfere,
Alice, I know what I'm doing.
You don't, you don't.
- Please Frank.
- Oh, for God's sake, be quiet Alice.
- Why can't you let her speak.
- You mind your own business.
In any case, she'll speak at the right moment.
- Look here Frank. Why can't we, both of us, chuck the whole thing now?
I've got nothing against you.
You've got nothing against me.
Except, of course, I had some cash from you, but I wasn't serious.
Well, look here, have it back now.
Well can't you see, that she wants to chuck it up too? And so do I, you know.
Look here, Miss. You tell him.
Tell him that he's playing with fire and...
And we shall, all of us, burn our fingers.
I'm not bad really, I only... things have gone wrong lately, and one's got to live, you know.
All right then. It's still my word against hers.
That's it?
Oy!
You men meet me in the back, Frank, follow me!
I say, it's not me you want.....
It's him.....ask him.
Why his own....
Hello. Not very often I see you so early in the day as this.
- Called to see Frank?
- No.
No, I want to see lnspector Walls, please.
-Then you'll have to fill out one of these forms, you know.
- All right.
- Do you know something about this?
- Yes.
George, just a minute.
Take this along to inspector Walls.
Well I suppose you're going to tell him who did it, Miss.
Yes.
- You can come along now
- Here you are, Miss.
- Come in, please.
Won't you sit down?
You've something to tell us about this case.
- Yes.
- Well, what is it?
Well, you see. I know who did it.
Is this worthwhile sir, now that everything has been cleared up?
Let's hear what she's got to say.
What I was going to say is this...
I'd better say, what I have to say now...
I would rather not wait.
What I wanted to say is...
- I was the one.
- One moment please.
Hello.
Yes, yes.
Yes, hold on. Will you deal with this young lady,
I shall be busy for a minute. Yes, sir.
This way Miss, please.
Alice, whatever made you come here?
I did it.
- I know.
- You don't know.
He tried oh, I can't tell you.
It's too terrible. I was defending myself.
I didn't know what I was doing and then...
- My dear.
- Ha, ha! So you found him,
Miss. Did she tell you who did it.
- Yes.
You'll want to look out, or you'll be losing your job my boy.
I suppose we'll soon have lady detectives up in the Yard, eh.
And I shall be all right on the dole, won't I.
