Herbert Ponting's original negatives were acquired by the BFI National Archive in
1944. From these and a Dutch release print from the Eye Film Institute Netherlands, we have reconstructed Ponting's silent feature The Great White Silence with its tinting and toning as released by him in 1924.
The Antarctic Continent is an ice clad wilderness of dazzling whiteness and appalling silence.
It is the home of Nature in her most savage and merciless moods, and it is there that the hurricane and the blizzard
Though larger than Europe, that vast continent has never been inhabited by man; it is utterly devoid of vegetation and no land animals of any kind exist there.
Only a few of the hardiest and most determined explorers have ever penetrated to its icebound shores; and at the heart of that dread and sterile desolation there is a spot that only ten human beings have trodden since God made the World.
That spot is the uttermost end of the earth... the SOUTH POLE.
The immortal story of the Scott
South Pole Expedition now belong to History as the greatest peace adventure of the Age.
II is a proud heritage of our
Race. The Leader was Captain Robert
Falcon Scott, R.N., C.V.O.
When Mr. Ponting had the honor to show this record of the Expedition... by Royal Command at Buckingham
Palace, His Majesty King George said:
I wish that every British boy could see this film for it would help to foster spirit... of adventure on which the Empire was founded.
The story of the film will now be told in the words of Mr. Herbert G. Ponting, who took and developed it under circumstances hitherto unparalleled in the history of photography.
At the end of October, 1910, there steamed into the harbor of Lyttelton, New
Zealand, the old Dundee...
Whaler TERRA NOVA, which had seen more Polar service than any other vessel that had ever sailed the seas.
On board were members of the British Antarctic Expedition.
This was to be not only an endeavor to reach the South Pole; it was one of the greatest scientific enterprises ever sent out from any land.
At Lyttelton, the TERA NOVA was overhauled and restored, and finally nineteen ponies were shipped.
Whilst the ship was at New Zealand, the crew spend their leisure hours in sailor fashion.
There were some good dancers amongst them, and the orchestra consisted of banjo, bones and gramophone.
We had plenty of this sort of talent on board.
And here is another little bout between two of the stokers.
On November 29th. Captain Scott bade farewell to friends on the bridge of the TERRA NOVA.
Then we cast off from the wharf, where crowds had gathered to watch our departure...
And the TERRA NOVA proceeded on her lonely way, with her load line nearly a foot below water.
We had many tons of deck cargo, amongst which our thirty Siberian dogs were berthed.
I soon got busy amongst them with my camera.
And here are some of our
Siberian ponies.
They were in the care of that gallant cavalry officer,
Captain Oates.
Soon after we had started on our way, an epidemic broke out aboard...
...of HAIRCUTTING!
Dr. Wilson's locks were the first to go.
Then Captain Oates clipped Mr. Meares... and he didn't pay much attention to a request for "merely trimming".
When evening fell upon the sea, the green hills of New Zealand softly merged into the night.
Then all hands were piped on deck to set full sail.
And the next day we were well upon our southward way, with all our canvas pulling and swelling to the breeze
But before another dawn a full gale was shrieking through the riffing, and hissing and raging over the now mountainous waves.
There is no land in these latitudes to break the fury of the seas; and in that gale two of our ponies died, two dogs were drowned, and we lost some tons of our deck cargo.
Whenever the ship was hove-to for soundings, seabirds swarmed about us and they squabbled noisily for any scraps thrown overboard,
Ten days after leaving New
Zealand we felt the first breath of frozen seas. The "Look-out" reported an iceberg ahead.
We steamed close to it to enable us secure this picture.
The floating island was all gleaming in the sunlight, and the waves were dashing with a thunderous roar against its crystal cliffs.
Tough nearly 100 feet of ice appeared above the surface of the sea, it was estimated that not more than the eighth part of the berg was above water.
Then we entered the pack-ice, and it was thrilling to learn over the rail and watch our iron-shod prow crashing through the floes.
We were now fairly across the Antarctic Circle, and ice-floes covered the surface of the sea.
But the TERRA NOVA would ram and split them, and into the "leads" thus formed she would force her way.
More than once, however, the floes became too thick, and the ship was imprisoned until the swell broke up the ice.
The ice field was a desolate scene when viewed from the main top-mast.
About this time we met with the first Penguins. I shall have a lot to tell you about these extraordinary creatures later.
We saw many seals basking on the ice, and occasionally we shot them and brought them aboard, for fresh meat was necessary to guard against that dread disease scurvy.
Now let us take a peed at the iron-shod prow of the ship shearing a way through the ice.
The TERRA NOVA was built of oak, fourteen inches thick, and her iron-sheathed bow was backed with nine feet of solid teak. Now just watch her batting with the ice!
This is how I took these pictures.
After fighting the floes for three weeks, we emerged from the ice, which was drifting northwards, and steamed into the open sea.
Two days later a mighty rampart loomed up before us it was the Great Ice Barrier, the Polar Ice-cap which barred all further progress all further progress southward.
To the westward it terminated at the cliffs of Ross Island, above which rose the volcanic foot-hills of Mount Terror.
The Great Ice Barrier is the most extensive mass of ice on earth, approximating the size of France.
It is the birthplace of the icebergs...
...which break away in great masses, sometimes many miles in length.
THE LARGEST BERG SIGHTED
DURING THE EXPEDITION WAS
22 MILES LONG.
SUCH AN ICEBERG COULD BEAR
THE CITY OF LONDON AND ALL
IT'S SUBURBS ON ITS BACK.
We now steamed past the coast Ross Island and entered McMurdo Sound...
...by the light of the
Midnight Sun, which shed its radiance on snow-clad mountain peaks...
...and magnificent glaciers.
All that night we steamed leisurely along, carefully scrutinizing the land.
Then young ice began to form upon the sea...
...and growing rapidly, it speedily congealed into pancakes which looked like lily-leaves upon the sea, and for a time we repeatedly ran into and out of this beautiful ice formation.
When at length we reached firm ice, we moored the ship to it.
In the morning, a glorious prospect opened out, with the great volcano
Mount Erebus towering over
13,000 feet into the heavens.
At the foot of this magnificent mountain we decided to establish winter-quarters, and we began immediately to unload our equipment and stores on to the ice.
Then we disembarked the ponies.
They had come from distant
Siberia, and were almost wild with joy to be
"ashore" once more.
For hours they whinnied and nibbled at the snow in sheer delight.
After a day's rest they were set to work hauling light loads of stores.
The Motor Tractors also got busy; they worked on the
Caterpillar principle, and were the forerunners of the "Tanks".
Each Tractor could haul two tons on trailer sledges, at a speed of three miles an hour.
The dogs put in some good work, too.
THEY seemed to regard work as the only sort of fun to be had in these regions... and they were not far wrong!
So, they're back... for a little more
FUN!
We built a wooden house for winter-quarters; it had to stand terrific storms, and heavy drifts of snow.
The great volcano, Mount
Erebus, rose high into the skies in the background, and it often vomited clouds of smoke into the heavens...
This produced an extraordinary spectacle by the light of the
Midnight Sun.
And now, I want to introduce to you "Nigger", the
Expedition mascot, with one of his sailor friends.
Nigger had been further
South than any cat that was ever a kitten.
Now, watch him jump!
Hard luck, Nigger!
But you're allowed three tries.
That's better! Now another, please - to convince these nice people that it wasn't a fluke.
Now come to the end of our Cape and see some of the inhabitants of these regions - the Seals.
They go "home" for dinner.
And though they come ashore to sleep...
...they return for the morning dip... which some prefer to take this way.
Whilst other prefer this method.
They dearly love to play in the waves...
...for surf bathing is very popular in the summer-time when the temperature rises above Zero.
This one taking "a stroll" among the rocks, found he had come the wrong way.
So he back-pedalled.
And this one objected to my presence and "went" for me.
The reason the picture stops suddenly is because I picked up the camera and gave him the right of way.
Now come with me and my photographic sledge on to the ice again, to get some more seal pictures.
When taking pictures in Polar temperatures one has to protect oneself well against the frost.
In the spring the baby Seals are born, and in sheltered places on the ice there are hundreds of mothers with their little ones.
The mothers suckle their cubs, just as other mammals do.
Some had twins but that was unusual.
Weddell Seals have handsome coats of rich brown, streaked and spotted with black and fawn and silver, but of course hair, not fur.
The mothers showed obvious affection for their cubs.
Now, watch baby learning to walk, when Mama says
Come along!
The cubs are pretty, fluffy little creatures; but look at Mama!
Not much hope of improving in looks as they grow up!
I was fortunate in being able to illustrate remarkable habits of Seals, hitherto unknown.
This Seal is cutting away the ice with her teeth in order to make a way on to it, so that she may sleep in the fresh air.
Which, after a lot of hard work, she succeeds in doing.
When a baby Seal is in the water, the mother's task is a long one, for she has to make the way very easy for the cub.
I had to camp out on the ice in Zero temperatures to get these Seal pictures; and I felt grateful to this big fellow for he didn't keep me waiting long.
Here is a monster... nearly twelve feet long and weighing about half-a-ton
And finally here's a fight!...
Mostly bluff, and lasts for one round!
Now come in the ship to "Glacier
Tongue", where we unloaded the sledges and equipment for the main exploring party.
Whilst at the glacier, we saw many Killer Whales... the most ferocious creatures in the ocean.
They prey on Seals. Sailors call these monsters the
"Wolves of the Sea". Here is one rising and blowing.
One day a big fellow came close alongside the ship, and dived under it.
This is a pack of killer
Whales, hunting their prey.
Only their dorsal fins can be seen.
They have sighted a Seal on the ice. Watch this mother Seal frantically trying to save her baby from the fearful creatures.
Now, watch the LEFT of the next picture please!
The mother Seal again leapt on to the ice, and then once more she dived into the sea, and tried into the sea, and tried to lift the baby out upon her back.
The Whales were drawing nearer every moment!
But just as the terrible creatures were almost upon their prey, a harpoon was fired from the ship.
IT IS ALL OVER IN A FLASH,
BUT YOU SEE THE HARPOON
STRIKE THE NEAREST WHALE.
Then the frightened monsters followed done another under the ice, and the mother and her baby were saved.
Sometimes we saw the curious phenomenon as "Frost Smoke".
This was due to a cold wind striking the water, which is always much warmer than the air.
In March TERRA NOVA steamed away to New Zealand... to return a year later to take the Expedition home.
And these are the explorers who remained in the South. (Captain
Scott with the Ski stick.)
The long Polar night fell in May, and for three months we had a period of darkness...
...almost constant storms, with temperatures from 20 to 50 degrees below Zero.
But when the weather was clear the stately ice-cliffs were marvelously beautiful in the moonlight.
Captain Scott much of his time during the Winter writing up his Diary in our Winter quarters Hut.
In September the welcome sun came back again, and we rejoiced at the
Birth of Polar Spring.
With the advent of daylight once more, we sometimes had a game of football, to make us fit for the arduous work ahead. Captain Scott
- last with the ball - kicks off.
This game was played on the frozen sea, 2,000 miles nearer the South Pole than any other football match ever contested, and the temperature was
70 degrees below freezing.
We also now had daily practice at Skiing under the tuition of an expert.
The Norwegian snowshoes, spelt SKI and pronounced SHE, were alas! The only she's we saw for about two years.
In the Spring I spent much time amongst the icebergs with my cameras.
One berg had a wonderful cavern, which I christened
"Aladdin's Cave".
The same Cavern a year later.
The "Matterhorn berg".
The Bastion.
Jack Frost's Castle.
And now I want to show you how our dog teams worked.
First, however, let me introduce to you. "Osman", the leader of the pack.
And also "Kris", another splendid animal.
Feeding time. The dogs are having seal-meat to-day; to-marrow they'll have biscuits.
They led their keepers a dog's life.
But they were gluttons for exercise and were wildly excited whenever any work appeared in sight.
The leader of the team did not have to pull like the rank and file;
His duty was to use brain rather than mudcle, to find the easier track for the sledge.
When all was ready, the sledge had to be anchored, and the dogs held; otherwise they would bolt... and there would be the very dickens to pay!
A team of ten dogs could pull a load of one thousand pounds twenty miles a day, and they didn't believe in "ca canny".
Let us now have two minutes with our other four-footed friends. Here is Dr. Wilson leading "Nobby" out of the stable.
And this is Lieutenant
Bowers, with Victor.
Petty Officer Evans always worked with Snatcher.
Now let me show you the only moving pictures ever taken of MacCormick's
Antarctic Skua Gull.
These beautiful gulls live and breed farthest south of any birds in the world.
See how warily this one returns to its eggs... not knowing that my camera and I aren't really as bad as we look!
But to settle on them comfortably is a more difficult matter than you might think.
There is only ONE correct way to do it.
And that wasn't it!
Neither... is this!
Now, she is going to show you how it
OUGHT to be done.
And at last everything fits!
Now see the eggs hatching!
The chick is pecking its way out of the shell.
The eggs are, of course, hatched under the mother's wings; but in order to secure these pictures...
...she was driven off a few seconds every hour, so that the chick's progress could be recorded.
One final kick... and then Shell out!
Don't be worried, please!
The chick is not dying... it is just beginning to live.
The next stage of its career.
This is not a Yorkshire
Terrier. It is still the chick.
Fully hatched now, and waiting for baby sister.
And here she is, too.
Baby brother is fed up with the camera, so he's off!
Here is Mama with the newly hatched clucks- one is under her wing.
Mr. and Mrs. Skua seem very proud of their baby.
And baby knows well enough where it is warm and comfy.
The most interesting inhabitants of the Antarctic are the
Adelic Penguins, and in this scene, on the RIGHT, the local Charlie Chaplin is practicing his famous walk.
In the springtime, when every
Penguin lightly turns to thoughts of love, the ladies stand about in little groups, waiting for gentlemen to come along and succumb to their attraction succumb to their attraction... like this!
And this is a gentleman penguin giving one of these ladies the glad eye.
And this beauty has made up her mind to have him, or else not to.
Sometimes I saw a gentleman picking up stones laying them at a lady's feet.
Penguins make their nests with stones, and this was his way of asking the lady to be his bride!
But in this case the lady does not seem to regard the proposal favorably.
The newlyweds' stating their housekeeping.
A few days later, they are much excited over the arrival of the first egg... and don't seem to know what to do with it!
Penguins are very proud
´f their eggs and are continually discussing them.
See how reluctant the husband is to leave them, in order to go and do the shopping.
And, when he does stat, he returns for just one more look!
The lady Penguins call for their mates by raising their heads, flapping their flippers, and making a crooning sound.
Here is one doing it.
EVERYBODY'S DOING IT NOW!
This are all lady Penguins calling for their husbands to come home.
Now watch one answer the call! He knows he has stayed out too late, and that he's in for trouble.
Penguins are habitual thieves.
This rascal is trying to rob a neighbor's nest.
But see what happens when a thief is caught in the act!
A discussion on the vexed question "Do shrimps make good mothers?"...
...ended in heated differences of opinion.
This lady foolishly left nest for a moment.
And a wandering robber at once took possession of it.
Then the rightful owner returned, and sparks began to fly!
And when the neighbors protested against such disgraceful brawling, the thief made a wobbly retreat, leaving the owner of the eggs once more in possession.
I spent many happy days amongst the Penguins with my cameras, and whilst most of them don't worry their heads about me, others resented my intrusion.
Look, for instance, at this brave little fellow!
But when they found that
I was not such a ruffian as I looked,
I could even stroke them as they sat on their nests.
The Skua-gulls are relentless enemies of the Penguins.
The owner of this nest has left it uncovered for a moment, when, down comes a Skud gull, and off goes the egg!
These audacious rascals often do their robbery quite leisurely and defiantly.
The Penguins can offer no resistance, as they cannot fly.
There are frequent snowstorms during the breeding season.
Then the poor Penguins have a miserable time.
Look at this disconsolate little fellow, very tired and unhappy,
TRYING TO FIND HIS WIFE!
And when at last, he succeeds, he runs with joy to greet her.
As the snow becomes deeper, the Penguins sit closer on their eggs!
Until, finally the birds are completely covered.
You see only snow here but buried two feet deep, and sitting tightly on its eggs, there is a Penguin.
There are thousands under the snow, and when this one looked out and saw me, she had some very unpleasant things to say!
Two weeks later the snow had disappeared; and here are some of the newly hatched clicks.
The neighbors are much worried about them, believing them to be deserted.
But the mother has only been removed for a few moments, so that I might secure a picture.
Now she returns.
The chicks grow so fast that when they are one week old...
...it is not easy to cover them.
At two weeks, it is impossible.
When three weeks old, the chicks run about so much that they get lost in the crowd.
See how concerned are the kindhearted elders about this little bunch of strays!
And look at this one doing Sentry Go to protect them!
A stranger caresses one of the chicks... but the sentry won't stand any nonsense!
When the chicks are six weeks old they get their full plumage and are nearly as big as their parents.
Then off to the seaside for their first dip.
They are taught by their parents swim, and to catch fish... like this
I can assure you there is hot very much fun in life for the Penguins, and it is a very unusual thing to see them behaving in this manner.
But soon you will see the cause of all the commotion.
THIS WAS THE CAUSE!
The gallant sailors of the
TERRA NOVA loved to have a game with the queer creatures.
And this is what they called The PENGUIN TROT!
All preparation were now complete and on November 2nd,
1911 Captain Scott set out on the primary object of the Expedition... the discovery of the South Pole.
Would he get there before the
Norwegian Expedition, under Captain Amundsen, which was also bound for the same goal?
Four parties out... three to support the main
Polar Party.
The first 20 miles of the great 850 mile journey lay across the frozen sea.
From the sea-ice they went on the Great Ice
Barrier, which had to be traversed for 400 miles.
Captain Scott and Dr. Wilson formed the rearguard of the long caravan that marched into the Great White Silence.
They waved a last farewell.
200 miles farther on, the
First Supporting Party deposited a supply of stores...
...for the use of the Polar
Party on the return journey, and turned back.
After travelling 400 miles in 38 days the three parties reached the
Beardmore Glacier.
Here they were overtaken by a raging, howling blizzard which delayed them four days.
Here, also, the ponies... unable to traverse the dangerous crevasses and pitfalls of the Glacier... met their predestined end.
Endeavoring to make up for the delay which might lose the coveted honor of priority at the Pole, we can imagine the terrific labor henceforward entailed in man-hauling each of the heavy sledges.
Under the virgin snow, cracks in the ice cannot be seen, and they often caused dangerous stumbles...
...for an accident to one man might imperil the lives of all.
Upward and onward the determined explorers doggedly toiled over that stupendous cataract of ice which, stretching from the Great Ice
Barrier to the Polar Plateau, rises 8,000 feet in 120 miles.
Among the dangerous crevasses and seracs caused by the terrific pressure of the ice, day after day they struggled on.
But when occasionally they found smooth patches of snow, they were able to make better progress by using Norwegian ski.
The end of each day brought always the same routine.
After unpacking the sledge, they pitched their tent.
They then weighted the tent with blocks of snow to prevent it from blowing away.
And after filling the paraffin cooker with snow for water...
...they entered the tent to eat and sleep.
From the summit of the
Beardmore Glacier another
Supporting Party had turned back, having first deposited their supplies for the Polar Party.
This Supporting Party got back to Winter quarters in 37 days.
They had man-hauled their sledge for over
600 miles.
Three months exposure to the intense cold had blackened and scarred their faces with frostbite.
Meanwhile Captain Scott, with eight men, set out across the vast and fearful wilderness of ice that caps the undermost end of the world, and 100 miles farther on the
Last Supporting Party deposited their supporting and turned back.
Imagine now the isolated
Polar Party in their tent at the end of each Officer Evans striving!
Petty Officer Evans is the cook for the day, and on his left are Lieut. Dowers, Dr.
Wilson and Captain Scott.
As the temperature is 20 or 30 degrees below Zero, the explorers change their damp footgear...
...as soon as they enter the tent.
Sometimes they camped in more than 100 degrees of frost.
After hanging up their socks to freeze dry overnight, the explorers, with keen sledging appetites, eagerly watch the cooking of the savoury pemmican hoosh.
Pemmican hoosh is a rich soup made of the finest dried beef, 60% fat.
After the meal, the sleeping bags are unrolled. They are made of thick reindeer skins, and no time is wasted getting into them.
Then all snuggle close together... for greater warmth.
Day after day they toiled, drawing ever nearer to the
Goal of their Hopes... their sole thought, ambition and ideal to be first to plant their country's flag at the uttermost end of the Earth.
On January 18th. 1912, the party reached the South Pole.
To their dismay, a mute sentinel was standing at the Goal... a small deserted tent. It had been left there by the Norwegians, who, having discovered a shorter way, had forestalled Scott by 34 days.
Scott wrote in diary:
It is a terrible disappointment and I am very sorry for my loyal companions...
Great God! This is an awful place!
With blasted hopes unbroken spirit, that gallant little band at the end of the earth now faced the terrific
850 mile return journey.
Scott wrote:
Now for the run home and a desperate struggle.
I wonder if we can do it.
From the Pole to the
Beardmore Glacier the distance was over 300 miles, which they covered in 18 days; and then began the descent of the great icefall.
After two more weeks of tremendous struggling they got into frightfully rough ice at the foot of the Glacier, and Edgar Evans fell and sustained concussion of the brain. Scott wrote:
It is a terrible thing to lose a companion in this way...
His death left us a shaken party!
Petty Officer Edgar Evans, R.N.
Scott's Diary, February 20th:
Terribly slow progress, but we hope for better things as we clear the land...
Pray God, we get better travelling as we are not so fit as we were.
February 27th:
Desperately cold... We talk of nothing but food...
Pray God, we have no further setbacks... but there is a horrid element of doubt.
March 3rd:
We can't keep up this pulling that is certain.
Amongst ourselves we are unendingly cheerful, but what each man feels in his heart
I can only guess.
March 8th:
The surface remains awful, the cold intense, and our physical condition running down...
We are in a very bad way I fear... Got help us, indeed!
On March 16th, Captain Oates, whose feet were completely maimed by frostbite, could go no further.
Scott wrote:
He proposed we should leave him in his sleeping-bag.
That we could not do... At night he was worse and we knew that the end had come.
The next day, Oates, determined no longer to imperil the lives of his comrades with the burden of his presence decided to sacrifice himself.
Scott wrote: He said, I am just going outside, and I may be some time.
He went out into the blizzard and we have not seen him since...
...We knew that poor Oates was walking to his death, but though we tried to dissuade him we knew that it was the act of a brave man. and an English gentleman.
Scott, Wilson and Bowers struggled on for two days longer.
On March 19th. they pitched their 60th. Camp from the Pole...
...With food sufficient for only two more days.
Then another terrific blizzard stuck them, and they could not leave the tent.
In that blinding storm it was impossible for them to find the way to a depot of plentiful supplies which lay distant only 11 miles.
Exhausted with hunger and suffering, they could do no more. But those gallant, devoted men met the end with unfailing spirit, and indomitable courage, trusting in God, and happy in the knowledge that they died for the honor of their country.
As soon as possible a
Search Party set out from
Winter-quarters, and eventually they reached the fateful tent.
It contained the frozen remains of Captain Robert
Falcon Scott...
Dr. Edward Adrian Wilson...
...and Lieut. Henry
Robertson Bowers.
It was there that the Leader, with Death staring him in the eyes, wrote of the last efforts of himself and his comrades, and bequeathed his immortal journal to Posterity.
The following passages are quoted from his LAST MESSAGE in his Diary.
We have been willing to give our lives to this enterprise, which is for the honor our country.
We took risks... we knew we took them. Things have come out against us, therefore we have no cause for complaint, but bow to the will of
Providence, determined to do our best to the last.
Had we lived, I should had a tale to tell of the hardihood, endurance and courage of my companions.
These rough notes and our dead bodies must tell the tale.
But for my own sake I do not regret this journey, which has shown that
Englishmen can endure Hardships, help one another, and meet death with as great fortitude as ever in the past.
Scott
The three explores were reverently buried in the ice, and over their bodies a great cairn of snow was raised.
And this Cross in The Great
White Silence is sacred to the memory of England's greatest Polar explorer...
...and his four loyal comrades... whose heroism shall last in the annals of our Race as long as time endures.
So on their record writ all to know -
The task achieved, the homeward way half won -
Though cold they lie beneath their pall of snow,
Shines the eternal sun.
FINIS
Original music composed and performed by The Alloy Orchestra.
Following the music instructions written by Dziga Vertov.
Music produced for
The Pordenone Silent Film Festival.
This movie was restored by
Lobster Films during the spring 2014 with the participation of the Eye Film Institute.
When Dziga Vertov travelled to
Western Europe in 1931,
He brought with him a print of MAN
WITH A MOVIE CAMERA.
His journey, taking in different
European cities, concluded in Amsterdam and here he left his print with the Filmliga.
This rare full-frame print, to which the original division in 6 chapters has been restored, was the main source for the film print that you are about to see.
MAN WITH A MOVIE CAMERA
A record on celluloid in 6 reels.
Produced by VUFKU 1929
(An excerpt from the diary of a cameraman).
For the attention of the spectator:
This film presents an experiment in the cinematic transmission of visible phenomena.
Without the aid of intertitles
Without the aid of a script
Without the aid of theatre
This experimental work aims at creating a truly international absolute language of cinema based on its complete separation from the language of theatre and literature.
Author-Supervisor of the experiment:
DZIGA VERTOV
Chief cameraman:
MIKHAIL KAUFMAN
Assistant editor
ELIZAVETA SVILOVA
Bakhmetievsky (district) bus depot.
Borzom, mineral water.
M. Gorki
O. I. Mogutov's Wine, Vodka and food store.
Tour of passenger freighter "Lenin" going from Odessa to Yalta.
Mail.
Wedding registration.
Divorce registration.
Expert shoeshine from Paris.
The filmmaker.
Cultural questionnaire.
Drop box for wall newspaper contributions.
On sports.
Green Manuela.
Proletarian Film Theatre.
Beer pub.
Icon and candle store.
Club Vladimir Ilitch Oulinaov of the station of Odessa.
Father of Fascism.
Vodka, beer, wine, eatery.
Lenin club, the first five-year plan.
END
Studio MOSFILM
OCTOBER
This film was produced in 1927 by a group of soviet filmmakers, led by Sergei Eisenstein for the Tenth Anniversary of the October Revolution.
This film recreates the events of October 191 7 with the greatest possible realism.
Many participants of the Revolution,
Red Guards, soldiers and sailors appear in the film.
Among them is
Nikolai Podvolsky, one of the leaders of the armed uprising.
Leningrad and its streets, the Winter Palace, the corridors of the Smolny, were the same as in that fateful year.
Thus, OCTOBER 191 7 renders a stirring ''eyewitness'' account of the early days of the birth of the
Soviet Union.
A masterpiece created by one of the world's greatest film directors, it's a welcome gift to film viewers.
The original film premiered in the era of the silent screen.
This sound version was made by
Eisenstein's associate
Grigory Alexandrov.
The music is by
Dimitri Shostakovich.
Sound : V. Ladyguina
V. Babouchkine
OCTOBER 191 7 this fiIm is dedicated to the Petrograd
ProIetariat heroes of the October
RevoIution.
Commissioned by the October
RevoIution JubiIee Committee.
Chairman,
NikoIai PodvoIsky.
ScreenpIay and Direction,
SERGEI EISENSTEIN and GRIGORY ALEXANDROV
Camera,
EDUARD TISSE
We have the right to be proud that to us feII the good fortune of beginning the buiIding of the
Soviet State and by doing so, opening a new chapter in the history of the worId.
VLADIMIR ULYANOV (LENIN)
ALEXANDER III, EMPEROR
OF RUSSIA.
FEBRUARY
The proIetariat's first victory on the road to sociaIism.
TO THE CITIZENS
OF RUSSIA!
TO THE CITIZENS
OF RUSSIA!
Long Iive the
ProvisionaI Government!
TO THE CITIZENS
OF RUSSIA!
To the citizens of
Russia?
That means...
BROTHER !
FRIEND!
The ProvisionaI Government...
...wiII continue to honor the commitments made to the aIIied powers.
One pound of bread.
One haIf pound...
One quarter pound...
One eight pound...
The same oId story...
Hunger and War.
But...
Outside the FinIand raiIway station.
ApriI 3rd
''It's him !''
''UIyanov!''
''LENIN !''
''Long Iive the revoIutionary soIdiers and workers who have overthrown the Monarchy!''
''No support for the
ProvisionaI Government!''
''Long Iive the SociaIist
RevoIution !''
SociaIist...not Bourgeoisie.
Five months of Bourgeoisie
Government...
No Peace
No Bread
No Land
JULY
Days of the peopIe's wrath.
''Down with the capitaIist ministers!''
''Down with the
ProvisionaI Government!''
Meeting foIIowed meeting outside the buiIding where the Petrograd Committee of the BoIsheviks was housed.
''An uprising is premature!''
''The enemy wiII try to provoke us!''
''We caII for caIm and restraint!''
Kronstadt SaiIors.
''The party wiII Iead you when the times comes.''
NEVSKY PROSPECT
Corner of Sadovaya Square
StronghoId of the reactionary newspaper...
EditoriaI offices of
THE EVENING TIMES.
TO THE RESCUE OF THE BANNER.
''BOLSHEVIK!''
The government ordered the bridges raised... to cut off the workers' districts from the center.
The victors threw copies of THE PRAVDA into the river.
The counter-revoIutionaries had won.
The ''PRAVDA''
The 1st Machinegun Regiment... caIIed for soIidarity with the workers.
TURNCOATS!
TRAITORS!
BOLSHEVIKS!
Headquarters of the BoIshevik miIitary organization.
The Petrograd Committee of The BoIshevik Party.
DICTATOR.
Minister Of The Army.
Minister Of The Navy.
Prime minister,
Etc., etc., etc...
Hope of the Nation and the RevoIution :
AIexander Kerensky.
The tsar's Iackeys.
A true democrat!
The ''ROYAL'' democrat!
The ''TURNCOATS.''
The ''TRAITORS.''
On JuIy 6th, the ProvisionaI
Government ordered the arrest of Lenin.
Lenin had gone underground.
But he directed the 6th Party
Congress, which pIanned an armed uprising.
In the chambers of
Empress AIexandra.
AIexander Kerensky.
In the chambers of
AIexander III.
AIexander IV?
''Order For The Reinstatement
Of The Death PenaIty.''
NAPOLEON?
EMPEROR?
The RevoIution is in danger!
''GeneraI...
...KorniIov...
...is advancing !''
''KorniIov is advancing !''
''Defend Petrograd!''
''KorniIov is advancing !''
''In the name of
God and Country.''
''In the name of God...
''In the name of Country.''
''Hooray!''
''Hooray!''
GeneraI KorniIov.
Two NapoIeons.
Which of the two?
KorniIov is advancing.
With the Savage Division.
With British tanks.
And the government?
The government is powerIess.
''KorniIov shaII not pass.''
Prison doors were torn open.
The ''TURNCOATS.''
The ''TRAITORS.''
The BOLSHEVIKS.
The arsenaI was in the hands of the peopIe.
The workers of Petrograd took over...
...the defense of the city.
DEFENSE HEADQUARTERS.
THE SMOLNY.
The ''TURNCOATS.''
The ''TRAITORS.''
The BOLSHEVIKS.
THE SAVAGE DIVISION.
''GOD IS WITH US.''
The BoIshevik IeafIet...
...spoke their Ianguage.
BREAD!
PEACE !
LAND!
BROTHERHOOD!
Fraternizing.
And...
GeneraI KorniIov was arrested.
PROLETARlAN, LEARN TO
USE YOUR RlFLE!
''The BoIsheviks must seize power!''
''This wiII be the Iast and decisive battIe!''
The hour drew near.
On October 10th., the CentraI
Committee Of The BoIsheviks debated the question of an armed uprising.
Trotsky urged for a postponement.
Waiting untiI Rodzyanko and Co. strangIed the RevoIution or beginning the uprising.
There was no middIe course!
To vaciIIate was to Iose.
''AII in favor of
Lenin's proposaI.''
''AII in favor of
Lenin's proposaI.''
The party set up headquarters for the uprising.
THE MlLlTARY
REVOLUTlONARYCOMMlTTEE
OCTOBER 24th
After four months in the underground,
Lenin was in the SmoIny.
Map of Petrograd and suburbs.
The Palace Square...
The Winter Palace...
On the eve of October 25th
Lenin took over the direction of the uprising.
An appeaI was drafted.
''TO THE CITIZENS OF RUSSIA''
The Provisional Government has been deposed!
State power has passed into the hands of the...
Petrograd Soviet of Workers' and Soldier's Deputies.
October 25th, 191 7,
10 a.m.
In repIy to the appeaI... from the workers' districts to the SmoIny...
CLASS SUPERVlSOR
THE MENSHEVlKFACTlON
The Mensheviks.
The Commissars!
''To the teIegraph office!''
''To the teIephone exchange!''
''Man your posts!''
The morning of October 25th.
On orders from the
Committee and according to the pIan, the cruiser
''AURORA'' saiIed up the
Neva River.
AURORA
Again the bridges were raised and the workers' districts were cut off from the center.
The bridges feII into the hands of the workers.
''The saiIors are coming !''
A Cossack regiment.
''This is the Minister of War.''
''Where are the Cossacks?''
''They're saddIing their mounts.''
NeutraIity.
TO THE ClTlZENS OF RUSSlA
''QuickIy, to the front so that we can return at the head of our IoyaI troops and crush the BoIsheviks!''
''GentIemen !...''
The cadets marched to the aid of the deposed government.
''HeIp is on the way!''
The Women's Death BattaIion.
''To the Iast drop of bIood!''
The biIIiard tabIe of NicoIas II.
Barricades of the counter-revoIutionaries.
The deIegates of the Second Congress of Soviets assembIed.
Delegates of the
Menshevik Party - Room 16.
Delegates of the S.R. Party
Room 20.
DeIegates from the front.
From the East.
From Kronstadt.
From the Ukraine.
From Siberia.
The ProvisionaI Government had Iost power, but continued to exist.
Its Leader.
Its Members.
They drafted an appeaI to the peopIe.
''...The Constituent AssembIy is the onIy IawfuI government in Russia.''
That night at the SmoIny the Menshevik S.R. CentraI
Executive Committee opened the session of Congress.
''Comrades.''
''There is but one question on our agenda.''
''That question is... who shaII be in power?''
''The ProvisionaI Government is the onIy IawfuI government.''
THE MlLlTARY
REVOLUTlONARYCOMMlTTEE
But the peopIe decided otherwise.
The Russian CapitoI was in the hands of the revoIutionary workers and soIdiers.
AURORA
The Winter Palace...
The Palace Square.
''The BoIsheviks have hatched a miIitary pIot against the
IawfuI government.''
''We wiII have hunger and ruin instead of bread.''
''The country's ruin wiII be
BoIshevik's destruction.''
''But the revoIution wiII aIso perish.''
''Down with him !''
''Down with the Iackeys of the bourgeoisie!''
EIection of the Congress Presidium.
''AII those in favor of the
Mensheviks and S.R.'s?''
''Not so many.''
''AII those in favor of the BoIsheviks?''
ALL POWER TO THE SOVlETS!
Red Guards heId the Winter
PaIace in a ring of steeI.
Surrender!
You are given 20 minutes... to avoid bloodshed.
Military, Revolutionary Committee.
Bearers of the truce proposaI.
''A man?''
''A woman?''
''Hey, friend!''
''Last uItimatum to your government.''
Waiting for a repIy.
Waiting...
One by one, the soIdiers of the Death BattaIion surrendered.
Time was running out.
InfiItrators from the SmoIny were making their way into the
PaIace to the Cossack battery through the PaIace ceIIars.
There are 1,100 rooms in the PaIace.
In the main courtyard...
...among the Cossacks the infiItrators were at work.
''Officer coming !''
''You dirty...''
''How dare you Ieave your post!''
''You, a cadet!''
THE MOTHER !
''Cadets! Attention !''
''We have been given an uItimatum.''
''We shaII not surrender Russia to the BoIshevik-German Spies!''
On the fIoor above...
The infiItrators had done their job.
''How do you propose to seize power?''
''I'm asking...
...you BoIsheviks!''
''The Army is not with you.''
''The frontIine troops...
...are not with you !''
''That's a Iie!''
''You are speaking for Headquarters!''
TWELFTH ARMYSUPPORTS
THE SOVlETS!
''The TweIfth Army...
...is with the BoIsheviks.''
''Comrades!''
''Comrades!''
SoIdiers of the CycIe BattaIion.
''RaIIy to the Soviets!''
The Cossacks...
...surrendered.
They changed sides.
StiII no repIy.
NO REPLY.
And at the Congress...
The Mensheviks ''discoursed.''
''We must try to settIe this sad misunderstanding peacefuIIy, without fighting, without bIoodshed.''
''The BoIsheviks want to force historicaI events.''
''There wiII be no peace!''
''There wiII no bread!''
''The time for words has passed!''
''We want peace!''
''We want bread!''
''We want Iand!''
The signaI!
The guns at the
Peter and PauI Fort.
Committee For The SaIvation
Of Country And The RevoIution.
Trying to save the
ProvisionaI Government.
To save the Government?
''Why... that is... the Mayor, in person !''
''We protest most emphaticaIIy!''
''Forward!''
The Empress' bedroom.
''Let's get Kerensky!''
''GentIemen. Let us meet them in a most dignified manner.''
''You are aII under arrest on behaIf of the MiIitary
RevoIutionary Committee...''
October 25, 191 7.
Antonov Ovseyenko.
''...I decIare the ProvisionaI
Government deposed!''
ST. PETERSBURG
MOSCOW
NEW YORK
BERLIN
LONDON
PARIS
''Comrades!
The Workers' and
Peasants' RevoIution, which the BoIsheviks have aIways deemed necessary, has been won !''
Wednesday, October 25
Thursday, October 26
DECREE ON PEACE
DECREE ON LAND
''We must now set about buiIding a proIetarian sociaIist state in Russia.''
V. UIyanov (Lenin )
THE END
THE ELEVENTH YEAR
VUFKU, the All-Russian Film and
Photo Administration dedicates this film
...to the Soviet Ukraine and the entire Red Soviet Union
Author and Leader: Dziga Vertov
Assistent: E. Svilova
Director of Photography: M. Kaufman
Laboratory Assistent: I. Kotelnikov
Half way between Dniepro-Petrovsk and Zaporozhje the "Wild River" rushes over the rocks.
Further down the stream.
"Catherine's Chair"
The "Warrior"
The "Cliff of Love"
A 2000 year old Scythian.
The conquest of the Dniepr.
Echo
We construct
"Dnieprostroy"
Here we construct
Europe's biggest power station.
Here electrical energy emerges.
"Electricity Co-operative"
Underground on socialist post.
In Lenin's country.
Under the banner of Lenin.
People of metal under the banner of Lenin striving heroically towards socialism.
A sentry on the Black Sea and the sentry in Volchovstroye.
Voroshilov and a sentry at the Ukrainian-Romanian border.
"Electricity Co-operative"
In a village powered by electricity we see the Village Soviet.
In a village powered by electricity we see a meeting of the Communist Union of Youth.
Lenin's lamp glows in a peasant's hut.
A worker's estate
A club
"Proletarians of all countries, unite!"
We construct
"Power Station"
We construct furnaces.
We build one steamer after the other.
One workbench after the other.
One factory after the other.
The country advances towards socialism.
On the ground.
Underground.
High above ground.
A comrade from China.
A comrade from Africa.
"Self-help Co-Operative"
A comrade from India.
"Dnieprostroy"
We will guard the achievements of our hard-fought revolution.
We will sacrifice our lives.
Over the land, withdrawn from the landowners...
Over the factories we withdrew from the capitalists rises the second decade, rises the eleventh year.
To the victory of socialism in our country.
To the victory of socialism in every country.
ONWARDS!
THE END
KINO EYE On Its First Reconnaisance
First Series of a Cycle "Tapestry of life"
Production of the Film Office of Goskino.
THE FIRST Non-fiction Film Thing
Without Actors
Outside the Studios.
Film Organized by
DZIGA VERTOV
Camera Operator:
MIKHAIL KAUFMAN
KINO EYE
At the Church Holiday or The Effect of Homemade
Vodka on the Village Women.
With the Village's "Young Pioneers."
Today is the International
Day of the Cooperative.
"Women Workers and Villagers, Go!"
Children's Cooperative.
With the City's Young Pioneers.
The Cooperative is Fighting... the high Cost of Living.
Will You Help It?
The "Revolution" Troop was ordered to investigate the marketplace.
Two girls, Kopuchuska and Anya.
The boy, Latishov.
How much is a drink?
Kopuchiska's mother is shopping for meat.
How much is the beef?
Don't buy from the private sector.
Buy from the cooperative.
At the Cooperative!
Moscow Province. Cooperative of the Handicapped.
The First Red Supermarket.
The Cooperative receives meat directly from the slaughterhouse.
Kino Eye moves time backwards.
What twenty minutes ago was a bull.
We give the bull back his entrails.
We dress the bull in his skin.
The bull comes back to life.
In the stockyards.
In the railroad cars.
Back to the herds.
The Young Pioneer, Latishov.
"A letter for you."
End of the first reel.
Morning at the camp of the Young Pioneers.
From the camp to the Cooperative.
Kopuchuska
Serving as the village barbers.
The tin shop helps the villagers.
The nursery children visit the camp.
We're Pioneers - New People.
You Can Trust Us.
Library.
"Thank you, children, you helped us a lot."
Kino Eye tells how this camp was founded and built.
Gathering of the village troops.
Club House.
BE READY TO FIGHT FOR
THE WORKERS' STATE.
A few minutes remained until the opening ceremony.
A worker.
A peasant.
"Now our children don't go to church, but nonetheless I'm grateful."
The village's Young Pioneers.
"We, the village Pioneers, will study with you."
"We will go with you step by step."
"Salute the flag!"
"Raise the flag!"
End of the Second Reel.
Kino Eye on the Chinese Magician.
How the Chinese magician
Chan-gi-Wan earns his bread.
Here is where the magic is.
"LOOK!"
"Look! A whole arm!"
Here is the arm, now you see it, now you don't.
"There is nothing here.
"Nothing here."
"Now we'll make a live mouse."
The magician's pay is in units of bread.
From the Young Pioneer's diary:
"If the clock could go backwards, the bread would return to the bakery."
Kino Eye continues the Pioneer's thought.
From bread to dough.
From dough to batter.
The sacks of flour back on the wagon.
At the mill.
The rye returns to the railroad cars.
The mother of one Komsomol and five Young Pioneers.
The Pioneers at the village nursery.
Borya, leader of the troop.
"We must help a poor widow."
The poor widow's hovel.
The widow.
The Young Leninists help her.
Threshing.
"A letter for you."
Coming back from work.
They bathe.
Kino Eye shows how one dives properly.
End of the third reel.
Up the river to the village of Sannikovo.
Borya.
Kino Eye witnesses the birth of the village troop of Young Leninists.
"Lenin worked all his life and fought for the workers and peasants."
"Young Leninists continue this work."
Last day with the peasants' children.
The storming of the camp.
Farewell to the village.
At the same time, an elephant visits the Young Pioneers in Moscow.
Tired.
As heavy as 350 people!
6:00 a.m. On the way to the zoo.
Awakening.
End of the fourth reel.
Sleeping.
The homeless wake up.
The awakening of a cocaine addict.
The everlasting sleep.
The murdered citizen turned out to be I.
Udakov, a worker at the Mosselprom Brewery.
A girl named Shura.
Been
Alms for the Tubercular.
You smoke and drink.
You help Tuberculosis attack.
Our Ultimatum.
On Tverskoy Street.
The same place seen from a different angle.
On Sukharevka Street.
"Can you spare something?"
For the fight.
Against tuberculosis
At the tuberculosis sanitarium.
Kino Eye at a state "country home".
"Romashka!"
"Remember the dead!"
"You know Jesus Christ? That's me.
My hair is l-o-n-g..."
"I myself haven't been born yet."
"I demand you to stop the massacre!"
"You are a police officer of the old regime, and it is unacceptable that the
Workers' Soviet don't know about it."
"look at me, men!"
"How unbelievably beautiful I am!"
"To hell with the icon! Bread is my God!"
Having been two weeks in the insane asylum,
"Scrip" has returned to Sukharevka Street.
"I don't take scrip."
"I don't give scrip."
"I don't take dollars either!"
The representative of flotsam.
Black market.
The paramedics.
"What happened?"
"An old man is out of breath.
Please help."
The sick man's wife.
MOS-SOVIET provides for the workers' education.
Electricity gives millions of horsepower to the village.
[Diagram explaining the workings of a crystal radio receiver.]
Tuning, telephone and crystal are labelled on the receiver.
But how can we use it?
Installation of the antenna.
In disbelief.
2000 meters of Kino Eye stride, soviet!
Battle between the new and the old, culture film - Goskino - Moscow.
A Sixth Part of the World
A Goskino Production Moscow
First Edition: From border to border
Distributed by Sovkino
Author-Leader Dziga Vertov
Assistant to the director E. Svilova
Director of Photography: M. Kaufman
Camera team: l. Beljakov, S. Bendersky, P. Zotov
N. Konstantinov, A. Lemberg
N. Strukov, J. Toltchan l - ln the land of the capital l see ... the golden chain of the capital
Foxtrot
Machines
And you l see you ... and you ... and you ... and you
You, l see ... in the service of the capital
More machines
And more
And even more
But for the worker it is just as ... just as ... difficult l see ... colonies
The capital
Colonies
Slaves
The capital
Slaves
Black people ... existing for amusement as
Chocolate kids
The capital
Toys
Canons
Hatred
Convulsions
On the brink of historical downfall ... the capital ... celebrates
You, bathing sheep in the waves of the sea
And you, bathing sheep in the stream
You in the Auls in Dagestan
You in the Siberian taiga
You to not get lost
You ... in the tundra
On the Pechora River ln the ocean
And you ... who discarded the capital's authority in October ... and opened up the way to a new life ... for the country's oppressed
You
Tatars
You
Buryats
Uzbeks
Kalmyks
Khakases
Mountain dwellers from the Caucasus
You, Komi, from the Komi district
And you from the distant Aul
You ... at the reindeer races
And you ... at the feast of the Goat Slaughter
At the signal of the steamer
At the zurna and the drum
You with the grapes
And you at the rice
You, eating raw reindeer meat
You, drinking from mother's breast
And you, lusty centenarian
You mother, playing with your child
You child, playing with the captured arctic fox
You, unleashing the reindeer
You, doing the laundry with your feet
And you, sitting in the audience
You ... knee-deep in grain
Knee-deep in water
You, spinning your flax in the spinning room
You, spinning your wool in the mountains
You ... all ... are the masters ... of the Soviet ... land ln your hands lies ... the sixth ... part ... of the world
From the Kremlin ... to the Chinese border
From the Matochkin Strait ... to Bukhara
From Novorossiysk ... to Leningrad
From the lighthouse at the Arctic Circle ... to the Caucasus Mountains
From the golden eagle on the arm of the Kyrgyz ... to the eider on the cliffs of the Arctic Ocean ... to the owls of the North ... to the seagulls of the Black Sea
All ... are in your ... hands
Yours
Yours are ... the buffalo
The goats at the Ulu-Usen river
The camels on the steps of Kyrgyztan
The reindeer
The Sibirian squirrel
The Arctic Fox in the trap
The marten
The brown bear
The sable of the High North
The Karakul sheep
All ... are yours
Your factories
Your plants
Your oil
Your cotton
And the sheep
The wool
The wool
The wool
Your fat
The fish
Your flax
Your tabacco
And your immense wealth ... are yours
Along every path in the Soviet Union roll goods for export
Over country roads
Over mountain paths
And with camel caravans
And there ... where the buffalo are harnessed to the carts
There, where nomads lead their herds
There ... where the herds cross the river
There, where fruits are packed into boxes
There ... where the Vogul unties the knot with his teeth
There, where flax for export ... is brought to the harbour
GOSTORG (State Trade Organisation)
Where cisterns and reservoirs are filled with sunflower oil
Where caviar is freighted
The cattle
The cement
Where the grain ... in an endless stream ... flows into foreign freighters
And there ... where not one single path leads
Where, over a distance of thousands of versts ... one does not meet a single person ln the severe frost ln the snow banks of the endless tundra ... they fight their way to the State Trade Organisation's nearest collecting point ... to deliver their prey ... for export into capitalist countries
Far away ... in the Arctic Circle ... where the sun does not set for half the year ... and nighttime lasts for half the year ... the Samoyedes sit motionless ... and look intensely towards the ocean
Every year steamers from the State Trade Organisation come to them at Novaya Zemlya ... with dogs ... with flour ... with wood ... with textiles
The Samoyedes are guests of the sailors
On the gramophone they hear Lenin himself
After 24 hours the steamer leaves again ... and takes fur with it ... and these furs arrive at the Leipzig Fair and in the capitalist country ... the furs, captured by Tungus,
Ostyaks and Samoyedes, are traded for machines for the Soviet Union ... for machines that produce other machines
Thus the land of the proletarian dictatorship ... and even the people still living in patriarchy ... by extension of the State Trade ... as far as these people may live ... builds up socialism
Together with medium and small farmers, bringing their grain to the cooperative ... together with the farmers who receive a tractor from the cooperative ... for the collective cultivation of the soil
Together with the male workers in the socialist plant
Together with the female workers in the socialist factory
The Black Sea
The Black Sea
And your Ship frozen in the Baltic Sea by the shore
Frozen in the ice
And one disappearing into the icy, unknown distance
Here and there they dig up the earth with a stick
Here and there there are still women with veiled faces
Some still recite the rosary
Some act crazy
Somewhere the shaman performs his magic
There are still places ... where a youth ritual is carried out for women
There are still places ... where they still make sacrifices to the god Menkva
Slowly the old is disappearing ... like you disappear into the icy distance
Still they believe in the help of Muhammad
Still they believe in the help of Christ ln the help of Buddha
Or like the Tungus l see you ...
Black Sea ... and your ship frozen in the Baltic Sea by the shore
Frozen in the ice
And you ... lcebreaker Lenin
You break the ice with your chest
We pave the way ... for our freighters ... to trade our grain ... to trade our furs ... for needed machines
For machines that produce other machines ... which in turn accelerate the growth ... of our own ... production ... of machines l see ... a woman, who has abandoned the veil
Another woman, who works under the women of the East
A Samoyedic komsomol reading the newspaper The Nordic
Buryats and Mongols reading the Buryat-Mongolic Pravda
Mongol children joining a pioneer battalion
For the support of the reindeer breeders a polar laboratory is being founded lrrigation canals are being built ... via waterless steps
The electric light bulb enters the farmers house
A reading house
Ostrivsky - Reading house - Library
And a radio presentation
Volchovstroy
Plants ... and more plants l see ... that we want to produce ... not only calico ... but also the machines, needed to produce calico
We want to produce ... not only tractors ... but also the machines, needed to produce tractors
We build ... in our country ... a complete ... socialist ... society
We are a hub ... for the workers of the West
A hub ... for the people of the East ... who stand up to fight ... against the yoke of the Capital
Oppressed countries ... gradually leaving the world capital
They will pour forth into the stream of the united socialist economy lnto the stream ... of the united ... socialist ... economy
The End
Association "Gosfilm" USSR
FORWARD, SOVIET!
Film Production
- Director: Dziga Vertov
Assistant: E. Svilova
Director of photography: I. Belyakova
Assistant Director: I. Kopalin
Today
When the plant...
The plant...
With electricity
With piped water
And the steam heating on
Today
It seems like a nightmare
Fire!
Days
Without bread.
Without water.
No firewood.
[Book "The Key to Happiness"]
[First Swallows]
No light
Somewhere in the horse fell from hunger.
Somewhere in the world jammed the camel in the snow.
What about people?
Workers
Peasants
Soldiers
Suffering with changes
Suffering from the cold
Suffering from typhoid
Suffering from hunger
Suffering from cholera
Suffering from death
Victory against the cold
Victory Against Hunger
Complete victory in the revolution
The bridges destroyed
And the burning locomotive
Lenin
The front of the Soviets
Calls
The main victims
To fight
For the sake of revolution
By the power of workers and peasants.
Locomotive derailed
And railroads mutilated
The Soviet is a hand delivered to the battle.
And another calling for improvements.
Opened the first school-models
Coming from slums
New housing for workers
And workers' villages
Coming from the barricades made with trams
To get the new lines.
In the periphery
Breads come from quarterly
To...
Being a meal on the table workers
Coming mutilation in factories and mills
Once the industry
The lamps of the city center
For electricity from the periphery
For electricity in the villages
And all of the factory / plant
In Red Square
Soldiers winners
The Red Cavalry
The Artillery Red
Comrades!
There is no rest
The Soviet invites you to a new war
War for change!
We will build houses
Inaugurating schools
Fighting unemployment
The bums, collective work and chores of unemployed
Tackling prostitution
In the cafeteria
Combat disease
Leper
Fighting against mud
Settle banditry
Against speculation and profiteering
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
Moscow Soviet
Workers, peasants and
Red Army members
For credit to the employee
In the house again
PACT IN OCTOBER HOUSING
FOR WORKER'S HEALTH
In the Soviet take care of education of workers
Health
We take care of their children from the womb of the mother
And more
Day care centers
Health conditions
Schools
Technical education
The Soviet aid to the peasant
Repair bridges and roads
Builds reading rooms in villages
READING ROOM AND LIBRARY
Wells
Leads to improved work
Organizing the population
BUY ALL OF COOPERATIVE AND
NOTHING FROM PRIVATE STORE
KOPEKS COOPERATIVE
SAVE YOUR RUBLES
Help in sowing the seeds
Buy credit to their own means of transport
Encourages the poor to purchase quality animals
In Sovkhoz
A new dam
A new bridge
The Soviet is the difficulty of the sick and disabled
Of deaf-mutes
WORKSHOP OF THE DEAF MUTE
Blind
Soviets
- the homeless
Literacy
Learning crafts
During the election
The coach led the Soviet
Instead of speakers
Instead of horns
I salute you on behalf of Soviet
Moscow Soviet
Fighting
On the economic front
Instead of rifles
Hammers
Axes
Shovels
Saws
Instead of bullets
Nails
Screws
Bricks
And...
Instead of
Shutdowns
All machines
A steam engine exploded
The repair of the steam locomotive
Where it was impossible to cross
Highway
The first
The now
Before shots were
Now are plowed hard
Replacing tanks
Peacefully
In the area of silence
Only by listening engine machines
Echoing
Where do they go so fast?
For the church?
Or to night school?
For the club?
Or the bar?
In the emergency room?
Or Ermakovka?
The night is full of contrasts
In mortal combat way of life against the rotten and dying
The Soviet proposes gymnastics
Reading sessions in the library
New summer camps
And workers' clubs
I remember the people who gathered in the Soviet
Speculating on the electrification of the teachings of Lenin
By means of lamps
Forget the pride
Remember
Each bulb
Each new tool
Each machine
Perpetuates the question of Lenin
For the construction of a new world
Order, Soviet
Forward, Soviet!
Soon NEP Russia will be the Russia socialist
Digitized by union leaders
YOUNG GUARD
Subtitle by seogaldino
